[music] Earning season has become front
and center and earnings have been
strong.
>> People are investing more seriously than
ever before, at least in the US. [music]
>> This market has continued to rally and
probably draws more and more people off
the sidelines.
>> This is a very good economy for
equities.
>> The underlying thesis on consumers and
business spend [music] is positive. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, hoping for a breakthrough.
>> We're going to have a a great talk. Uh I
have a lot of respect for President. I
like him a lot. He likes me a lot. I
think we're going to have a successful
transaction.
The US talking of progress ahead of this
week's Trump meeting as chairp Federal
Reserve prepares for the next big
decision. The busiest week of earnings
season is upon us. Big tech results up
next. A massive week just around the
corner.
>> 27 trillion of market cap reporting this
week. Just the big 10 uh big tech stocks
that are reporting which include
Microsoft, Alphabet, Meta, Apple, and
Amazon account for a quarter of the
total market capitalization of the S&P
500. To me, this is the big event. Can
they surpass expectations? Do their
shares rally in response to that beat?
And then what does this mean about their
investment thesis going forward given
that their capital expenditure programs
have really driven GDP so [music] far
this year?
>> That's the story for Wednesday and
Thursday. Let's talk about the other two
stories that look largely baked. A
Federal Reserve rate cut on Wednesday
and maybe [music]
a comprehensive deal between the US and
China. Based on a commentary over the
weekend, things are looking good.
>> Things are looking good, but we really
need to recalibrate where we are today.
We're basically back to where both
[music] sides were at the Geneva talks
in May. 100% tariffs that the president
has threatened taken off the table.
[music] You have the fact that China is
talking about or at least the Treasury
Secretary and Jameson Greer, ambassador
of USR, are both talking about the fact
that the rare earth export issue is
going to be solved or at least deferred
for another year. So, we were going into
this meeting with potentially a ton of
leverage. Both of these sides were
trying to bake into the market and guess
what? They all brought it back. Equity
futures up by 0.9% on the S&P 500. A
record high close on Friday. We're
looking for more record highs later on
this morning. Coming up this hour, Alice
Pindra of HSBC with stocks facing a make
or break week of earnings. Elizabeth
Economy of the Hoover Institution as the
US and China line up a trade deal and
Veronica Clark of City looking ahead to
the Fed rate decision. We begin this
hour with stocks rising on sides the US
and China are closing in on a trade
deal. Alistar Pendra of HSBC writing,
"Global equities can continue to grind
higher from here. We don't think we are
in bubble territory just yet. Alistister
joins us now for more. Alistister, good
morning. It's good to see you.
>> Thank you. Thanks for having me.
>> So, three big events. Trade talks, Fed
decision, earnings. What's the most
important one for you this morning?
>> That's a great question. Um, I would say
earnings. I think people, you know, I
done a lot of marketing. I was in Asia
uh the last couple of weeks. The number
one question from clients is, are you in
an AI bubble? I'm in every single
meeting. So, maybe that convinces me
that we're not in an AI bubble, but I
think that's going to be the key
catalyst uh this week. I mean the
earning season so far has been amazing
right 87% of beats we're running at 10%
growth year on year I think if the MAG 7
can continue to deliver um that
continues to drive a lot of upside the
next biggest one for me will be the
China trade deal I think if we just get
any kind of agreement it just starts to
ease more and more trade uncertainty and
we can start looking more aggressively
into the upside risk into 2026
>> well let's start with earnings so
massive week Wednesday there's been a
ton of spending there's going to be even
more through next year as Are we testing
the limits of investor tolerance around
all that capex?
>> I think we are. I mean, we're definitely
people asking a lot of questions. I
think the question now is though, can
you monetize that? That is that is the
number one question. And I think this is
where you're going to be looking deeply
into the earnings call at this point and
being like, you know, to what extent is
Microsoft and these other, you know, big
enablers uh able to generate profit from
all of this capex growth at this at this
perspective? I would say, you know, the
Mag 7 have historically done a
phenomenal job of proving that they can
generate huge return on investment. But
I think, you know, again, the key
question for me that I've been having is
what are some of the AI hedges? What are
some of the ways that we can basically
mitigate some of the risks if they can't
generate the profits on these capex?
>> I want to understand what we're pricing
in because it's one thing to say, look,
they've been generating a ton of cash
and they're expected to beat uh by
something like 15% this particular
quarter. That is the lowest beat though
in terms of these companies going back
to the beginning of 2023.
How much of the spend that we know about
is already baked in. How much do you
need to see some sort of extraordinary
profiting from some of the investment to
really get excited?
>> Well, I think if you look at the the
valuations here, I mean, the valuations
for the Mag 7 are basically in line with
their their median over the last 10
years. So again, it kind of indicates to
me that we're not necessarily pricing in
the most bullish of scenarios for the
Mag 7 here. And I think there's certain
areas of the market which are massively
underpricing some of the AI upside. I
think one of the biggest narratives for
the market going into 2026 will be
around the AI adopters. Those companies
that are using AI, saving costs,
becoming more productive and increasing
their margins going into uh next year. I
just don't think that's priced at all.
And we're seeing a lot of evidence from
the earning season this quarter and last
quarter that companies are actually
generating upside from
>> the broadening out trade. sort of where
you're seeing this going to be uh
potentially as as playing out. The other
point that you're making is you think
that the China US talks are really going
to be a significant driver and a
potential upside. Everyone's been saying
that, but has the downside ever been
priced into stocks? I mean, has anyone
actually considered a true break in this
relationship?
>> I mean, I don't think the true break in
this relationship has been uh properly
priced. I mean, if it if it doesn't, if
we don't get a trade deal this week, I
think that is going to be uh a big scare
for the market. I think the market is
pricing this in terms of a game theory
kind of aspect here which is that the
downside risks for both parties is just
too big if they don't come uh to a trade
deal. Um but I think you know we saw
with China just a couple of weeks ago
with the rare earth materials and some
of the comments there how much that can
unnerve markets you know the S&P 500
down a couple of percent on that. I
think if we just move past all of this
uncertainty that will give another leg
higher and again you see that in the
futures today of just how much the
market is reacting to this positively.
>> But this isn't actually a deal. It's
really a delay because the rare earth
issue is going to be deferred until next
year. How much is this just kicking all
these nerve nerves and concerns about
China down the road?
>> I mean I guess it is I mean again this
is where the details are really going to
matter, right? Where I think if there's
some element of a framework I mean this
is what they keep on saying it's a
framework framework from what you know
soybeans uh you know the rare earth
materials uh you know Tik Tok all of
these different things. If that
framework seems firmly in place, I
think, you know, the markets will kind
of look past that and and start to price
that in aggressively even if the
details, you know, specifically on the
agreement aren't particular.
>> China calls it a preliminary consensus.
[laughter]
Doesn't that feel like China is going
into this with less enthusiasm than the
United States? A preliminary consensus?
>> I mean, I think it shows you that China
is, you know, feels like they have
leverage and that they want to try and
get a good deal for them. Um I like I
say I think a good deal for everyone is
is something which is definitely an
option and and it feels like that's on
the cards and you know if we start to
price out this trade risk which has just
been bugging us all year we really start
to price that out and we start focusing
on to 2026 where a lot of positive
narratives are coming through fair
easing a potential increase in growth
also China specifically with their
5-year plan. What are they going to do
when they start fleshing out details
there? Um I think that again is just
more and more catalyst for upside for
global equities going into next year.
>> So what are we taking for granted and
you use the phrase there Fed easing and
I just wonder to what extent the Fed can
guide beyond this meeting this coming
Wednesday.
>> Well this meeting is extremely difficult
right with all the lack of data they
have. I mean they're in almost an
impossible position. I think the market
is pricing in a lot when it comes to Fed
easing next year. I think the biggest
downside risk for me is, you know, what
if the Fed can't ease as aggressively
because inflation is sticky because
maybe growth is too strong and that
actually causes the bond deals to start
backing up a little bit and that causes
valuations to contract. That for me is
the biggest risk. But I don't see that
materializing in the market until
probably Q1 or Q2 of next year.
>> I see this across the board on Wall
Street coming into this week from Bank
of America that Pal can't give much
forward guidance for December. Deutsche
Bank saying essentially the same thing.
chair panel is unlikely to provide clear
signals about the policy path ahead. Do
you think there's some scope for
disappointment this Wednesday afternoon?
>> Uh I don't think there's scope for
disappointment. I think it just
basically means that things are going to
be left unchanged. I completely agree
with that narrative which is that if you
don't have you know much scope to
provide a lot of guidance. Why shift
your your view dramatically here? Why
not wait until you get more clarity on
the data front? Um I mean I think one of
the interesting things you know when it
comes to the US is that there's still 10
trillion of cash uh or or money sitting
in cash. you know, $4 trillion in times
deposits. That's really held by the
retail investor, which is very sensitive
to changes in interest rates. So, if the
Fed cuts again and then they cut again
in December, I still think there's a lot
of money here which can go out of cash
and and move into equities.
>> This is the whole idea that people have
been expecting, right? The cash on the
sidelines. What will it take? Some cuts
from the Federal Reserve. Where does
that cash go? How much do you think
stays in the US? How much do you think
goes elsewhere? Yeah, I mean, if you're
a US investor, I think you see the S&P
500, you're going to feel I think you
can be feel difficult to feel compelled
to put that money in international
equity markets. I think it's going to
stay home to be honest with you. And
then the question is, well, at home,
where do you put it? Do you start
putting it into higher yielding um, you
know, fixed income? Well, you know,
spreads are near record, you know, lows,
so why not just put it into equities at
this point? And that's the market which
I think is driving, you know, the
biggest returns at this point. So I
still feel like there's this allocation
of cash going into equities here.
>> Okay. Which is interesting given the
duration trade that some people say will
benefit significantly. I'm trying to
square from your notes. You were talking
about how you are really bullish on
emerging markets.
>> Totally.
>> And right now you're making a huge
argument for the United States which is
the epicenter of tech. How do you square
that?
>> Because I'm super super bullish on
emerging [laughter] markets. That's
that's why. So I mean two things that I
think are really compelling for EM at
this point. One is the dollar, right?
the dollar is going to weaken. That
naturally is is a big upside for EM. And
the thing which I also think just goes
really sort of isn't really touched on
enough when it comes to EM is that EM is
a growth market, right? EM has 40% of
its stocks are in essentially techy
areas. And guess what? Those tech
sectors, you know, aren't doing tons of
capex like the MAG7. So if you are a
global investor and you're you're scared
about the Mag 7 and the capex story, why
not just reallocate a little bit to EM
Asia tech here? And we're starting to
see that from global funds. And so I
think that's one of the reasons why I
think you know uh Asia and and Asia tech
and EM as a whole can do very well next
year.
>> Two very different approaches Asia
versus the US when it comes to tech.
Alistister, I appreciate your time. It's
good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Alistister Pinder there of HSBC.
Equities doing better today worldwide.
With that, bond yields are a little bit
higher across the curve. 10-year bond
yields up by two basis points. We will
get some supply this week. Later on this
afternoon, $70 billion of 5year notes.
tomorrow, $30 billion or rather $44
billion of 7-year notes and a potential
for a lot of corporate debt issuance
this week as well. Keep an eye on that,
too.
>> We might get that $38 billion of Oracle
bonds that people were talking about
last week. How much does this affect
anything? Or is the demand so insatiable
that it overwhelms any supply? It's a
really good question. I mean, this is a
lot of supply this year uh this week. I
this year it's like a week. $69 billion
of two-year notes as you mentioned, $70
billion of 5year notes and $44 billion
of two-year notes in two days ahead of a
bit lot of these big tech earnings.
>> 10-year bon this morning high by two
basis points 4.02% on a 10-year maturity
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief as cross over to
Yahara for more. Hey,
>> good morning John. President Javier
Mille's party won Argentina's midterm
vote. Mille said he'd have the backing
of 101 members of the lower house and 20
senators protecting his veto power. The
result allows him to pursue free market
policies with billions of dollars in
backing from the Trump administration.
Meanwhile, the US and China are closing
in on a trade deal. Both sides spent the
weekend in Malaysia coming to terms on a
range of issues, including export
controls, fentinel, and shipping fees.
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson says
President Trump's threat of a 100%
tariff on Chinese goods is effectively
off the table, and he expects China will
make substantial purchases of American
soybeans.
Secretary Besson also announcing he's
narrowed down the list of candidates to
succeed Fed chair Jay Powell to five.
Speaking to reporters aboard Air Force
One, Besson said the candidate pool is
made up of Christopher Waller, Kevin
Walsh, Kevin Hasset, Michelle Bowman,
and Rick Reer. President Donald Trump
says he expects [music] to make a
decision before the end of the year.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
More from Yihara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, teen up a
trade deal.
We're going to have a a great talk. Uh I
have a lot of respect for President Xi.
I like him a lot. He likes me a lot. I
think we're going to have a successful
transaction.
>> That conversation up next with Elizabeth
Economy of the Hoover Institution live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[music]
What a week coming up full of earnings.
Check it out. Wednesday, Microsoft,
Alphabet, [music]
Meta. Thursday, Apple, Amazon. The
biggest biggest week of earning season
is just around a corner. In the equity
[music] market on the S&P 500, positive
by 0.9%, two-day winning streak into
Monday. two week winning [music] streak
coming into this week on the NASDAQ 100
this morning. The meltup begins early up
by 1.3% on the NASDAQ 100 and a Savannah
this morning teing up a trade deal.
What we understood yesterday or two days
ago or even today is not going to be
necessarily what it's going to be in two
days. We're going to have a a great
talk. Uh I have a lot of respect for
President Xi. I like him a lot. He likes
me a lot, I believe, and respects me and
I think he respects our country a lot
and we're going to have I think we're
going to have a successful transaction
for both countries.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump hailing progress in
recent trade talks with China over
several key issues ahead of his big
meeting with President Xi on Thursday.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from Tokyo for more. Tyler, welcome to
the show and good evening to you. Tyler,
the tone already pretty good coming into
Monday.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good evening where I
am. Good morning to you. And we have
seen some encouraging signs from really
both sides in what feels like a
marketked contrast compared to the
escalation of recent weeks. Most
notably, the US Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant saying that he and his trade
counterparts have essentially teed up
this framework for President Trump and
Chinese President Xi Jinping to finalize
when they meet face tof face later this
week. The general understanding here is
that this is likely going to result in a
extension to the trade truce that is
currently in place and set to expire on
November 10th. Though we are gleaning
some additional details on what it could
entail. The Treasury Secretary going on
to suggest that Beijing is going to
delay and review its recently unveiled
export curbs related to critical and
rare earth minerals that are set to be
enforced on December 1st and also that
China is going to resume its purchases
of US soybeans. Though at this point
there are still some big questions here
about how much and how quickly American
farmers will see relief. Now according
to US officials, the US isn't going to
loosen any of its curbs related to
advanced semiconductor chips. But I will
say that our own analysts at Bloomberg
Economics say that they do expect the US
to take off the table those threatened
but not yet imposed curbs related to the
supply chain, including on critical
software and cloud computing that we've
seen floated in recent weeks. Now,
importantly, I'm watching really closely
what's going to happen to that 20%
tariff tied to fentanyl concerns as both
sides say they've made progress on the
issue. And then in terms of what China
is looking for, we've heard from Chinese
officials that the US is going to no
longer impose ship uh fees on Chinese
ships that are docked at American ports.
John, there is a lot to look out for
here, but one thing that's emerging is
that it appears that the White House is
trying to use the stops ahead of
Thursday's meeting to gain additional
leverage. Just look at the critical
mineral deal signed with some Southeast
Asian countries over the weekend. All in
an attempt to loosen China's grip on the
global market.
>> Tyler with the latest. Tyler Kendall
over in Tokyo, Japan. Tyler, thank you
very much. The markets treating this as
if it's just inevitable now. Equity
markets are high up by 0.9%. Equities
are up globally. Is there anything
inevitable about this this coming
Thursday?
>> Well, this is the bar. They have to at
least meet this or exceed it on Thursday
or the market is going to come back with
a vengeance. But I think this was always
going to be the base case. We're pretty
much going back to what they agreed upon
months ago. All the threats of the prior
2 3 weeks just being taken off the
table. The real issue is can the United
States do enough of these mineral deals
in time for when China starts to
re-examine the rare earth export
controls in a year's time.
>> Joining us now to discuss is Elizabeth
Economy of the Hoover Institution and
the former White House senior adviser
for China under President Biden.
Elizabeth, welcome back to the program.
I'm going to ask the following question.
Forgive the snark, but if we're still
talking about soybeans, how much
progress are we actually making?
>> Right. I mean, I think it's a fair
question. Look, this is great news and I
think it does amount to a trade reset.
Um, but it's absolutely fair to note
that really with the exception of the
tick- tock deal that all of this just
brings us back out of the hole that we
ourselves dug have dug over the past
nine, you know, to 10 months since the
administration uh came into office. So
there's there's no real trade advance
here. you know, there are no new deals
being struck uh except for the fact that
yes, we're hoping to get soybean
purchases back to where they were in
2024 because they've essentially fallen
off to zero over the past few months.
So, I think, you know, let's be happy uh
that we're getting some stability back
in this relationship, but let's also
just acknowledge that we created a huge
problem and now we're basically just,
you know, solving that problem. Well,
Elizabeth, did the United States create
the problem or China with their unfair
trade practices and also really
ratcheting up the rhetoric when it comes
to the rare earth export controls?
>> Well, the rare earth export control
issue, you know, really didn't begin in
any way uh that we've seen right now
until we started this whole trade war.
Sure, there were some restrictions on uh
critical minerals that were put in place
during the Biden administration and then
again early in the Trump administration,
but that's vastly different from the
move that they just made. Uh and I think
they're they have an interest at this
point in taking a step back from that as
well because that wasn't just targeted
against the United States. That was a
global, you know, sort of new licensing
and export control regime on rare earth
that they were putting in place. Uh and
I think they did not expect the backlash
uh that they faced. And I think also
just it's a very difficult thing for
them to enforce. So they want some more
time to figure out, you know, is there
more nuance in how they would do it?
What would this actually look like? And
so I think for them they're taking this
step back is actually a good move.
>> China's threat on the rare earth export
controls saw the Europeans really up in
arms even as far as they said they're
willing to use the anti-coercion tool.
Did China bring Europe and the United
States together in this sense?
Yeah, I think one of the disappointing
things for China, frankly speaking, um
with the advent of the Trump
administration, I think China believed
that they had a huge opportunity to draw
closer to Europe and that just hasn't
materialized and hasn't materialized in
part because of China's, you know,
economic support for Russia in terms of
its, you know, war against Ukraine and
because of China's export of its
overcapacity. These are two pretty
existential issues for Europe. And this
just added a third issue uh sort of this
big regime on export controls, you know,
big export control regime on rare
earths. And so I think all of those
things really kept the United States uh
and Europe uh more, you know, close
together than probably uh one would have
anticipated given uh the nature of the
Trump administration and its overall
relations with Europe. It seems like
there are moving targets and right now
the ultimate one is really the rare
earths issue, the soybeans issue and the
big tech issue. The question of
technology exports to China. Those seem
like the main issues that are resolved
in clear priorities for both sides. Do
we have a sense of what else is on the
table? What else is being discussed and
where there might be some overlap or
agreement on some of those issues? I'm
thinking of Taiwan. I'm thinking of
different national security efforts. I'm
talking about source of origin when it
comes to evaluation of goods uh when
it's imported to the United States.
>> Yeah. I mean I think um you know
President Trump has mentioned his desire
to have a larger deal, a peace deal that
it's you know that we're going to work
out with China. Um I mean frankly my
hope is that that's going to be focused
on Russia Ukraine. One could also
imagine maybe we would tackle an
incredibly you know important issue
around Myanmar. I think on Taiwan, which
you know has been a lot of uh there's
been a lot of discussion about that here
in the United States, whether the
president is interested in somehow
folding Taiwan into some deal, which we
know the Chinese would like, right? They
would like to see us take a step back,
for example, from our uh export of arms
uh to Taiwan. You know, Secretary of
State Marco Rubio just said that Taiwan
is off the table, that Taiwan is not
going to be part of any larger deal
between the United States and China, at
least for now. Uh so I think you know
that's hopefully we can put that to the
side because I don't think we want to be
negotiating away uh Taiwan's um you know
sort of the degree of sovereignty that
Taiwan has today. Um you know I think
there are other issues you mentioned you
know we still have tariffs on China that
are quite significant 55% that those
don't seem to be overall being rolled
back. I think that your, you know,
reporter mentioned that the sort of 20%
extra tariff on fentanyl. If there's
progress on getting the Chinese to do
more there, I think that would be great.
Um, you know, we haven't heard anything
about the investigations that are
underway into a number of American tech
companies, Nvidia, Qualcomm, there's
Micron, you know, rumors of an
investigation against Intel. These are
all things that I think the United
States should be pushing China on
because these investigations are also
just about basically closing out our
semiconductor firms, you know, from
exporting to China. So, I think there
are a lot of other issues um over
capacity from China. We're not dealing
with the big structural issues in the
Chinese economy going back to the point
that was made about unfair Chinese trade
practices. Um we're not dealing with
those. You know, that's those have not
been on the table yet. Uh those are
complex negotiations and maybe after we
again dig ourselves out of this hole, we
could begin to move forward on a bigger
real trade deal that would get the
Chinese to do some changes to their, you
know, fundamental economic model.
>> Liz, appreciate it as always. One of the
best. Elizabeth economy there of the
Hoover Institution. The commitment to
overcapacity in China is going to
continue to stir up emotions in both the
United States and in Europe.
>> Yeah. How much is China aware of the
international relations aspect of this?
How much do they really want to not
press their luck too much when it comes
to both Southeast Asia but also with
Europe, right? How much are they trying
to keep people close, keep your enemies
closer uh than your friends? There is a
feeling that part of why they're coming
to the table is because of the outrage
about rare earths globally.
>> Strategic misstep. They made a bit of a
mistake in the past few weeks, I think,
and you can see them trying to walk that
back. But at the same time, [music] that
mistake meant the United States was
really ready to make a deal and almost
running to the table because of what is
going on with rare earths.
>> Futures this morning positive by 0.9% on
the S&P. We still have a government
shutdown. Week four, Terry Haynes of
Pangia Policy. Up next,
more than 10 trillion of earnings on
Wednesday. more than $10 trillion of
market cap [music] reporting again on
Thursday. All of that still to come and
we rally into it and rally hard. Up by
1.3% on the NASDAQ 100, up by 0.9 on the
S&P 500 as it looks like we have a very
constructive tone heading into this
meeting between Trump and she this
coming Thursday. [music] In the bond
market, 2-year, 10-year, 30-year bond
yields this morning just a little bit
higher. Yields up by two basis points on
a 10-year maturity 4.02%. We have gone
four weeks without rising yields
following a softer inflation print just
last week. Happened to keep a lid on
things this week. Just [music] a bit of
a supply test just around the corner
>> given the fact that we've got treasuries
being sold 2-year, 5year, and seven-year
denominations and that 30 billion $ 38
billion oracle sale. A real question
whether the appetite continues [music]
given the yields are fairly low relative
to expectations coming into this given
the fact that now we don't care about
inflation prints. We really just care
about the employment picture [music]
which by the way we're not getting
>> markets. so comfortable with three. It's
kind of crazy how comfortable everyone
seems to be with 3% CPI.
>> You know, I don't understand exactly
why. Is it because they see the
disinflationary force from artificial
intelligence? Is it because of rent? Is
it because of something else? Because if
you look at a lot of the current issues
[music] in terms of goods, prices are
going up at a faster pace, not a slower
one.
>> Chairman Pal will have to wrestle with
the communication around that story this
coming Wednesday [music] afternoon. as
we count you down to the open about 3
hours away with your morning movers.
Let's cross over to Danny for more. Hey
Danny.
>> Good morning John. Starting with some
deal news this Monday. Novartis will be
buying [music] Aidity. It is an American
biotech company from Novartis. They have
a lot of expiring [music] generic
competition on their way. So this gives
them access to new and novel drugs. The
price tag [music] $72 a share. So we're
trading just below that. Shares popping
by 44.5%. [music]
You also mentioned the constructive
talks after two days in Malaysia and the
hope that that will lead to something
big and a bigger agreement on Thursday
when President Xi and Trump meet. We're
seeing a lot of the tech companies re
react positively [music]
to that. Nvidia being one of the biggest
leaders in the MAG7 shares are up 2.5%.
Also as part of that Scott Besson
[music] saying that China would delay
their rare earth regime for at least
some time and you see the American rare
earth companies fall on that. Of course,
these are the companies that had gained
with the expectations [music] that that
exports from China would be curbed. So,
you have to go American. Now, we're
seeing MP Materials, for example, fall
4.6%. Critical Metals [music] falls
7.2%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate the update.
More on that a little bit later this
morning. On our radar this morning, big
move in Argentina. President Javier
Mille's party securing a comeback win in
Argentina's midterm elections, giving
Mille a strong new foothold in Congress
and allowing him to protect his veto and
push through his free market reforms.
Elsewhere, the US and China trade
negotiator is coming to terms on a range
of points, including export controls,
fentinel, and shipping levy, setting the
table for US President Donald Trump and
Chinese President Xi Jinping to finalize
the sweeping agreement later this week.
And finally, the US Transportation
Secretary Shan Duffy warning travelers
will face more flight delays and
cancellations as the government shutdown
continues.
What I see coming forward as we get to
Monday, tomorrow, Tuesday, and and
Wednesday that you're going to see more
staffing shortages and towers, which
means you're going to see more delays,
more cancellations. Air traffic
controllers are set to miss their first
full paycheck tomorrow. The pressure
starts to build. This is where a huge
pressure point is mounting right now.
You have more than 8,000 US flights that
have been delayed. Yesterday, LAX ground
halt because of absentees because of
what's going on with air traffic
controllers are not getting paid. And
Sean Duffy Duffy was talking about the
fact that these individuals are leaving
their job and to make ends meet. They're
trying to find jobs at night driving
Ubers, becoming a Door Dash delivery
individual. This is really an issue when
it comes to the fact that we are just a
few weeks away from November.
Thanksgiving when many Americans have to
head to the airport and travel. And
right now, neither Republicans or
Democrats are blinking when it comes to
the shutdown.
>> Alis, you've been talking to the
airlines, United American. What are they
saying about what's just around the
corner?
>> They're saying that so far there hasn't
been an issue so far, and they're saying
the longer this drags on, the more that
they expected to. But frankly, they
don't exactly uh speak how they might
feel in the sense that they might have a
lot of fear that people aren't going to
show up. But air traffic controllers
have already been under pressure with
low staffing levels and low employment
levels uh relative to the capacity
that's needed. They don't want to
deteriorate sort of morale further by
saying it's your fault that we're all
grounded. So they're trying to sort of
tow a pretty delicate line here. When
people start not getting paid, though,
and we have to think that hundreds of
thousands of people already have not
gotten paid as a result of the
government shutdown, things start to
change, behaviors start to change,
people need to take that time off from
work so they can go drive an Uber. The
airline guidance into year end kind of
speaks for itself. They're going to be
okay.
>> They're going to be okay. But I can say
they do honestly recommend that this get
shut or this get concluded soon because
they are concerned that the longer this
drags on the more it will have a
delayerious effect on airline
profitability.
>> Joining us now to discuss Terry Hayes of
Pangia Policy joins us now for more.
Terry, week four. What's the date
circled on your calendar when this gets
real?
>> Oh, I think uh sometime right before
Thanksgiving, I imagine. Uh, you know, I
I've been saying since before the
shutdown started that, uh, you know, not
only was this politically generated, uh,
but that Democrats had the ability to
decide when it was when it was finished
by mere merely by agreeing to continue
to negotiate on the Obamacare subsidy
temporary increase. And so they can do
that. Uh, and meanwhile, the pain will
uh will continue to mount as you all
have talked about. And uh neither side
ultimately is going to want to be uh the
the primary blamed for for all this. So
I think you probably have a uh a truce
called sometime before Thanksgiving.
>> Terry, something interesting happened
last week where you had the two
Democratic senators from Georgia decide
to vote with the Republicans and also a
senator Federman from Pennsylvania in
paying essential workers like air
traffic controllers. Are we going to see
more of that?
>> Um yeah, I think so. there's going to be
a lot of kind kind of oneshot bills uh
with different constituencies that might
not get be getting paid and all that all
that but you know underneath that what
that shows is a kind of growing disqu on
the Democratic side with the uh with the
shutdown strategy generally they're
willing to give their leadership the the
benefit of the doubt but that's also
wearing kind of thin
>> we also have elections upcoming November
[clears throat] 4th a big one with the
New York City mayor race and also
governor elections and Prop 50 in
California. Is that going to affect how
certain senators show up to vote maybe
after the elections take place?
>> Well, I think it affects how the how the
senators uh make known to their
leadership uh the the willingness to
continue. Uh I've been telling people
for a couple of weeks now that this was
not a political opportunity Republicans
sought, but it's one that they'll now
seize. what they want us what they want
on next week in November is to be able
to say to the public, look, the the
Democratic party is now the party of
Mamani, the new uh the new New York City
mayor, and you have uh I'm being
Republicans here, you have uh Hokll and
uh Jeff and Schumer all kind of bowing
to him and that, you know, that's the
future of the Democratic party. And then
uh they also want to point out that the
balloon likely gets led out of the
Democratic centrists in Virginia and New
Jersey. It's a little bit too much for
them to hope that uh the Republicans win
in either case, but what they will be
able to say is look, you know, they uh
they these people barely squeak through
in years where they should have done
much better and they haven't. Uh so you
know the balloon the the airs out of
that particular balloon and what you got
is kind of the mom donnie party and I
think uh folks frankly in Midtown
Manhattan underestimate just how uh how
powerful a message that is in the
broader uh the broader public.
>> How much does the shutdown really play
into local elections like that?
>> Um not much at all really. Um there is
uh you know more in Virginia than in New
Jersey because you have a contingent in
Northern Virginia. I mean, the
Virginia's turned a purple state, but
has turned into a tale of two states. If
you're in Northern Virginia, you're uh
you're in heavy government employee
territory. Uh and you know, outside of
Northern Virginia, you're not. Uh but
Northern Virginiaians are already by and
large heavily Democratic and motivated
to vote for the Democrat Spanberger
anyway. So, I don't know that it makes a
huge difference otherwise, although
they're trying to trying to pump up uh
less so in New Jersey. Terry, I'm
wondering what you think of Congress
being shut down, that the Congress
hasn't come back to the table so far for
another vote since, I believe, September
19th. And this has been a strategy uh
for majority house speaker uh Mike
Johnson where he said, "Look, it's up to
the Senate. The Senate needs to take
action. Then uh Congress can get behind
uh what they do." Do you think that that
has been a prudent strategy or one that
has really diminished the executive
branch of uh the House of
Representatives? Oh, it's a very prudent
strategy. You know, I know I'm aware the
New York Times thinks it's not, but uh
but but by and large it is. You know,
he's you know, he's got to heard cats
every day at Johnson does. And uh you
know, giving the cats a play pen in
Washington uh with a lot of microphones
and cameras around him is uh is an
opportunity for mischief. So, it's much
better that he keep them out. It's also
much better, frankly, for him that he
defends kind of the institution of the
House and what the House did uh on
shutdown and uh and frankly say it's up
to the Senate to figure it out. Uh you
know, it makes it uh easier for him on
those two levels. So, I think it's
probably a good good idea. Terry, what
is the future of the Democratic party?
Can we just finish on that? Governor
Hokll gets booed everywhere she goes.
establishment leaders down in Washington
DC reluctant to endorse the guys leading
at the polls here in New York City.
What's the future of this party?
>> Um,
they're going to have to have a uh, you
know, they're going to have to have a a
I was going to say a cleansing, and
that's obviously a bad thought, but the
idea is that they they've got to come
through both generationally and in terms
of ideas. They've got to reconnect with
people and not just pretend to. They've
got to try to figure out h how to move
people forward. We've had a generation
here, and I'm indicting both parties by
saying so. We had a generation here
where people have decided to play
politics instead of solving problems.
The party that gets back to solving
problems first and best uh wins. There's
a high perception that the Democratic
Party now is uh the party of rich people
and has completely disconnected from its
working roots. and the Republicans have
uh have run in come [snorts] into that
uh that hole. Uh Democrats have got to
get back to the get back to that and get
back to figuring out how things uh ought
to run and what they are actually for or
you know kind of all the uh all the
Hollywood this or that or the other
isn't going to make a difference.
>> Terry, I appreciate it. Terry Haynes of
Pangia Policy. Thank you very much, sir.
I don't think you can overstate the
importance of this upcoming election
setting the tone for elections still to
come in this country for the next few
years.
>> Yeah. Especially because the Democratic
party cannot understand exactly what it
is and it hasn't really come up with a
comparable message other than we're not
Trump and that doesn't fly and we have
seen that repeatedly. So it's a real
question. Do they coales around the
Mombi kind of point of view or do they
coales around something uh that is a
more traditional institutionalist type
type of view? And ultimately this is the
fight on the Republican party also. It
just is being manifested maybe less
successfully just by virtue of the polls
and some of the results in the
Democratic party.
>> Well, this is why Zoron Mani has
actually been successful. He hasn't made
every stump speech about I am an
anti-Trump person. He's actually made it
about the issues New York City residents
complain about. Why is everything so
expensive? Why is rent so expensive? He
has talked about affordability every
single time. So is Bernie Sanders and so
is Congressman Alexander Okasio Cortez.
All three of them last night at Forest
Hill Stadium taking a huge bow to a
soldout stadium that came to see them. I
mean he is winning this Mayo race and
it's going to have national implications
on this party.
>> Big time. The risk is their policies
just make those problems a whole lot
worse. Equity futures on the S&P 500 up
by 0.9% this morning. Equities advance
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara.
Hey yara. Hi, John. President Donald
Trump oversaw the formal signing of a
peace deal between Thailand and
Cambodia. Trump attended the ceremonial
signing event with the leaders of the
two nations in Malaysia, which helped
facilitate the talks. The president also
announced a trade deal with Cambodia and
a framework trade pact [music] and
critical minerals agreement with
Thailand. And Barclays is heading back
to Saudi Arabia after exiting the region
11 years ago. The British bank has
revealed it is in the process of
securing a license to conduct investment
banking activities in the country
alongside plans to open an office in
Riad [music] next year. Barkclays
follows similar moves from JP Morgan and
Goldman Sachs. And President Trump is
ruling out the idea of running as a vice
presidential candidate in the 2028
election. He made the comments aboard
Air Force One this morning, responding
to calls from some supporters who've
urged him to find a way around the
Constitution's two-term limit. Trump has
declined to rule out seeking another
term despite that restriction. Dutch
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yihara in the next hour. Up next on
our program, locking in the next rate
cut. The
>> labor market's weak. um growth seems to
be is on the stronger side which is a
bit [music] of a puzzle right now. You
don't want to make a mistake. So the way
to avoid that is to go you know
cautiously or carefully and do 25 wait
and see what happens.
>> In a few minutes time we'll catch up
with Veronica Clark of City from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Record highs on Friday. More in store
this Monday morning. Good morning to you
all. Equities up by 0.9% on the S&P on
the NASDAQ 100 up by 1.3% under Savannah
this morning locking in a rate cut.
We're not getting the public [music]
data but everything we're getting is
telling roughly the same story. The
labor market's weak. Um growth seems to
be on the stronger side which is a bit
of a puzzle right now. You don't want to
make a mistake. So the way to avoid that
is to go [music] you know cautiously or
carefully and do 25. Wait and see what
happens. So here's the latest this
morning. The White House naming five
finalists to replace Fed Chair J Pal
including Governor Chris Waller with the
Fed widely expected to cut rates at
Wednesday's meeting. Joining us now to
discuss is Veronica Clark of City.
Veronica, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Rate cut nailed on for Wednesday. Can't
seem to find anyone who disagrees with
that. How much guidance can they provide
beyond Wednesday's meeting?
>> Yeah, probably not a whole lot. Um we
haven't had any data of course. Um I
think if anything you the data that we
have had obviously CPI on Friday should
give them a bit more confidence. Yeah,
inflation is is slowing. Um, labor
market is is weakening, but they
probably can't give us a whole lot of
guidance right now. We have no data.
>> How comfortable should we be with the
data we have got, which is inflation at
3%.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's not where the
Fed obviously wants to be. Um, but I do
think they'll they'll find some
encouraging details in that data that we
got on Friday. We had particularly soft
shelter inflation. I think that will be
an encouraging development. Um, we
haven't seen, you know, a ton of the
tariff related inflation. Maybe more of
that is still coming, but I think this
is is slower details than than you know
they should be comfortable with. Yeah,
>> I thought also the uh owner's equivalent
rent was really interesting. The fact
that it came down to the lowest going
back to 2021. I was looking at this
thinking, okay, well, I can buy this
story. And then a couple of people
message me and say, "All right, you numb
skull. This is backward-looking data
that was done over the past year and is
completely lagging. And when you look at
current indicators, they show something
different." What's your response? Yeah,
they I don't actually think the current
indicators show anything that different.
Um, you know, it is a very lagging
indicator of course. Um, but when you
look at all the forward leading
measures, you know, Zillow, new rents,
um, home prices, home prices have been
falling for a lot of this year. Um, it
seems like that kind of trend can
continue.
>> At the same time, you are seeing other
points spike upward in particular some
of the good sectors and you see a lot of
companies saying that they're still
going to pass along additional price
hikes. At what point do you start to
look at this and say it's not so clean?
Even though we already knew it wasn't so
clean, it's even more difficult to
really discern what's going on.
>> Yeah. I mean, relative to how we were
forecasting the tariff pass through
maybe 6 months ago, though, I think for
for most people, we have been surprised
that we haven't seen more pass through
it at this point. And I think that
unfortunately does speak to consumers
just can't handle these big one-time
kind of price increases. It has to be
spread out over many months, which could
give the appearance that yeah, inflation
is maybe a bit sticky. Um, but it's
still that softer demand backdrop that
means you can't pass on these big price
increases all at once.
>> Doesn't it also mean that corporate
America has been resilient in terms of
mitigating some of the price hikes?
>> Yeah.
>> So, what does it mean for next year? Do
they start to maybe have to lay people
off?
>> Yeah. I do worry that, you know, the
more you can't pass on the price
increase to consumers, that is eating at
profit margins for longer. We've already
know that businesses are trying to cut
labor costs and they've been doing that
through not hiring anyone. Um, but I
would worry that you can only not hire
people for so long before the next step
is is layoffs. We don't see the signs of
that yet, but that is, I think, still a
risk.
>> We're in this data desert with the 27th
day of a government shutdown. We had the
inflation on Friday, but that was one
and done according to the White House.
How long could the Fed continuously cut
rates if we remain in a government
shutdown and don't have data?
>> Yeah, it is it's getting tricky. Um
obviously because you know there is the
division among Fed officials, a group of
people who maybe don't want to cut
anymore at all and and people who want
to cut you know each each meeting this
year. Um it is it is hard but I think
the shutdown itself if it really is
lasting that long um that is a drag on
growth in itself
>> except we won't see the data. That's
where the risk management argument loses
some oxygen I think in the next meeting
in December. If you don't have the data
to convert the hawks on the committee
>> how are they going to vote and how are
they going to forecast into next year? I
mean, we'll we'll have to deal with the
data that we do have. Obviously, we'll
have the surveys. ISM probably get more
important. Um, the Fed will probably put
more weight maybe than I would on
something like ADP employment. Um, but
yeah, it is it is tricky.
>> Are you seeing sufficient deterioration
in the other indicators?
>> It doesn't seem like we're we're getting
that break yet. Um, we fortunately
probably one of the best data points to
have, we are getting claims. We are
getting the weekly jobless claims data.
Um, we just have to aggregate it
ourselves from the states. Um, we have
seen continuing claims starting to tick
up again. Initial claims are still low.
Um, but that's going to be an important
one.
>> Let's see on initial claims. Does that
give you and a team pause that maybe the
labor market is not as bad as you and
some of the dubs on the committee thinks
it is?
>> Yeah, it is. It is tricky. We're getting
into the time of year, which this
happened last year also where there is
this residual seasonality pattern in the
data where you we had the weakness in
summer 2024 and then things seemed to
stabilize. Um, I think that seasonal
pattern comes from this lack of hiring.
It's this is a time of year when you're
not usually hiring a bunch of people,
but you're not laying anyone off either.
The issue is when we saw that happen
last year, it never got better, right?
We just repeated it this summer.
[laughter]
>> How much does the QT plan really matter,
the balance sheet? And there was some
flirting with that in some of the recent
speaks speeches from Fed Chair Jay
Powell that they were planning on
stopping some of the shrinking of their
balance sheet. Is that important to
understand what the directionality uh is
for them in terms of policy? Yeah, I I
think maybe my takeaway from it is just
a lesson that the Fed is extra cautious,
right? Um when we started to maybe get
to the, you know, point where maybe
reserves are not so abundant. Maybe
they're just ample. Um they're maybe
talking about ending it earlier. I don't
think they'll announce anything this
week. It's maybe, you know, end of this
year into Q1. Um but they are extra
cautious when it comes to everything.
>> What's the takeaway from you and Andrew
that you've had an ultra dovish Fed for
a long time. you've had inflationary
shocks, you have an ongoing inflationary
shock, and that the knee-jerk response
is to risk manage to the downside in the
labor market regardless of what Tom was
talking about, that 3% inflation rate.
How do you understand why the market
isn't pricing at a greater degree of
inflation longer term?
>> Yeah, I mean, it's it's a it maybe
speaks to to, you know, some confidence
in the Fed, right? We haven't seen long
run inflation expectations going higher.
Um, if we did see that, obviously,
that's a gamecher. Um, but I think the
market is is taking what what we see in
the labor market data and you know that
is not a scenario that creates
inflation, right? A weaker labor market
>> and a huge freak out about the erosion
of institutional credibility. It's just
when you look at market-based indicators
don't quite see the same thing
>> at all. I mean, if you take a look at
long-term inflation expectations,
they've come down in the 10 years, the
cleanest read on that. I just thought it
was notable in an interview in the
Financial Times over the weekend, Scott
Bessett talked about his strategy. What
he said is we want the most America
first policies that are possible without
incurring market wrath. And he was
saying unlike most of my predecessors, I
have a very healthy skepticism of elite
institutions. Uh but I have a healthy
regard for the market and that is very
much a focus of as he goes through uh
crafting policy.
>> Yeah. And he almost felt vindicated in
that interview. He was talking about
where the hell is the market risk. He's
looking at basically all-time highs when
it comes to the S&P 500. I also think
it's interesting when it comes to the
Fed. The president told us we're getting
a Christmas gift end of the year. We
will have a name by the end of the year
of what next year potentially policy
path forward will look like.
>> I think the Treasury Secretary has done
a good job of buying time on that issue
just stretching things out, delaying
things into year end. There was a
feeling at one point in the summer you'd
get that decision maybe around September
time. It's been pushed out a number of
months.
>> But remember that's when they were
jawboning Mr. Too late Jay Powell and
the president had called him. Now that
the Fed is cutting, I think it's the Fed
that gave the Treasury time to make this
process a little bit longer than they
were expecting.
>> Just quickly, Veronica, of the names on
the screen, you and the team got a pick
yet?
>> No.
>> No. [laughter] Don't want to go there.
>> No opinions. Yeah.
>> Too soon. Okay. Veronica Clark of City.
Rick Reed is still in the mix. We're
down to four or five names. It's a
decent solid group of names.
>> Yeah, we've been down to this five group
of names for about I don't know two
months now. I mean, the funny thing to
me is that they are prolonging the
discussion in the popular narrative that
they want to keep the pulse of there is
going to be another Fed chair, but we're
not going to undermine Fed chair Jay
Powell just yet because ultimately it
will be a test of the new Fed chair.
This is a great, you know, kind of
exercise in gamesmanship.
>> Going to be playing this game into year
end. Coming up on the program, Brian
Nick of New Edge Wealth, Janette Low of
Strategus, Vto Speduto of RBC Capital
Markets, Greg Peters of Pim Fixed
Income, the second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up [music] next.
>> [music]
[music]
>> We still have a very resilient [music]
and robust economy.
>> Heck with robust. I will take resilience
is what I like. Inflationary pressures
outside of you know some tariff related
pass through are pretty benign.
>> The Fed would be well served to be very
cautious in [music] this environment.
>> The Fed will become increasingly under
pressure.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz and An Marie
Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah and starts right now
and your scores look like this. [music]
Alltime highs into the weekend. We're
looking at record highs on the cards
this morning. Equity futures up by 0.9%
on the S&P. On the NASDAQ up by 1.3,
equities up, bonds down, yields just a
little bit higher throughout most of
this morning on twos, tens, and 30s.
10's up two to 4.02 going into just a
monster week. Earnings, loads of them
from tech. A Federal Reserve decision
coming on Wednesday. The day after that,
a meeting between the leaders of the two
largest economies [music] on the planet.
It's truly all of the main themes of
this year wrapped into one week with a
lot of activity. You've got [music] the
tech boom and how much you can see the
ratification of that with the big tech
names reporting Microsoft Alphabet and
Meta on Wednesday and then Alpha Apple
and Amazon on Thursday. Then there's
this question of how does the Fed
respond to a data desert? [music] Uh
they will respond by cutting interest
rates, but can they guide beyond that?
And then there's this question about
whether you do get a true resolution in
some of the trade tensions between China
and the US and the whether we've priced
out all tensions already based on some
of the market moves this morning.
>> The tone over the weekend just so much
better. Secretary Besson offering us a
guide into this meeting on Thursday and
the president almost doubling down on it
on Air Force One.
>> Yeah. The issue I have with this is this
really a deal or is this a delay? It
feels like it is [music] a trade war
postponement. when you think about the
fact the Treasury Secretary is saying
that the rare earth export controls are
being deferred on the Chinese side for
maybe a year. [music] So this story is
going to bleed into 2026. What we have
right now is basically coming back to
where both these countries were [music]
in May when it comes to the tariff
levels except maybe on fentinel and when
it comes to rare earths.
>> Mark's comfortable with that. Doesn't
want resolutions. Just does not want
additional problems going into year end
particularly at a time where a lot of
corporate clients have re-engaged.
[music]
the spending has continued and there's a
real sense there's a ramp or could be a
ramp into 26.
>> It's so funny to me that we hear a
greater degree of [music] certainty from
every company that we talk to, from
every investment manager that we talk to
and yet we're still talking about the
same trade issues between the US and
China and a potential ratcheting up and
ratcheting down of the same heated
issues over and over again. And it just
raises a question, [music] are people
understanding that both sides are not
going to necessarily mutually assure
destruction of one another as economies
and they're [music] going to come to
some resolution that isn't going to
cause a fissure in the relationship. And
I think that that really is what people
want to see that [music] status quo
continue this week.
>> Big bounce this morning up by 0.9% on
the S&P 500. Coming up this hour, Brian
Nick of New Edge Wealth with futures
climbing ahead of big tech earnings.
Janet Low of Strategus as the US and
China close in on a trade deal. and Greg
Peters a PGM with the Fed flying blind
into their next interest rate decision.
We begin this hour with stocks of record
highs with the Max 7 facing an earnings
test. Brian Nick of New Edge Wealth
writing, "We are following upward
earnings revisions, not rising
valuations." Brian joins us now for
more. Brian, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> How resilient is the bull case into this
week?
>> We think the earnings case is resilient.
We wouldn't be betting against good
earnings reports, not just this quarter,
but in the quarters ahead. And we think
that the especially the Mag 7 and tech
generally the expectations for 2026 look
pretty reasonable. It's the rest of the
market that we're a little bit more
concerned about with the 30 or 40%
expectations for smaller cap companies
uh to grow earnings into 2026. We don't
see as much scope for that. Um so we
don't want to be as quite as
concentrated as the market, but we don't
mind being in tech.
>> Well, let's take last week cyclical till
outperformance in small caps. Another
head fake.
>> The problem with the the small cap trade
is it's there's two things going on at
the same time. There's a general
optimism with interest rates coming down
with the economy looking resilient and
again in the absence of data. Um and
then there's a speculative trade which
seems to be correlated more with things
like precious metals and just tends to
be lower quality in nature. We we don't
want to be in companies that are are not
profitable where the the the valuations
as we said in the quote are rising
without any earnings. We saw some of
this in China too. One reason we've
taken some China exposure off the same
kind of reason we've seen this 30% rally
in a single quarter. That's where we're
taking some risk off the table. We'd
rather be in something like the S&P 600
which has some tests around
profitability quality rather than the
Russell 2000 which has really been
driving things over the last four
months.
>> Why is momentum not a leading indicator?
Why is the fact that momentum the sort
of less profitable companies and some of
the meme stocks and some of the more
inflated trades losing steam not a
warning sign to the rest of the market
and sort of an idiosyncratic hole that
people are shrugging off. I think it's
because the other indicators on
positioning on sentiment don't look
quite as frothy as as the the high
momentum trade. If you look at the AI,
individual investors still don't look
overly bullish on this rally. If look at
positioning, it doesn't look unusually
stretched, maybe slightly. So the other
things that if we had all those things
flashing red, I think that would be more
of a concern. And again, we're not
enthusiastic about chasing the momentum
stocks here. Typically, momentum is
having a really good day. Our strategies
are not doing as well. We want to be in
in in the higher quality areas that uh
that are waiting for the earnings
reports to come in because that's what's
going to tend to drive the uh the
results.
>> What are you looking for with the
Magnificent 7 stock results? I mean,
we're get the earnings results. We're
expecting to see uh some kind of $360
billion in cap capex spending from the
likes of Microsoft, Alphabet, Amazon,
and Meta so far this year. 420 billion
next year. Is that a good thing? Is that
a bad thing? How much are you depending
on it going up or going down? What's
your sort of tell?
>> Yeah, it has to be it's sort of a
perpetual motion machine at this point,
right? We need to see continued gu like
forward guidance looking positive
continued plans for capex among the
hyperscalers uh and then continued uh
profitable sort of outlooks for for the
invasives of the world of the chip
makers. So all [snorts] these things are
sort of mutually reinforcing. Um we
don't think that's a bubble for now. Uh
certainly not a bubble in valuations but
we think it's it's it ends up being
potentially a bubble in earnings down
the road. the expectations can't keep
ratcheting up, but we think for now with
the economy, with the beneficial sort of
Fed cuts happening, uh, and with all
signs pointing to, you know, generally
good risk appetite among investors that
this is going to keep going for a bit.
>> Brian, you're punting. What does for a
bit mean? What's the timeline?
>> We don't have a recession call uh for
certainly for this this year or for
early 2026. So, that means in the
absence of a recession, we think this
market continues to move up. The rest of
the economy to us doesn't look nearly as
good. We're not seeing it in the data
because the data is not coming out. But
when you look at the ADP numbers from
last week, the the smaller companies,
and I think one thing I'm going to be
looking at this week is the Dallas Fed
manufacturing survey, not just the
survey, but the common section, those
people, those business owners have been
pulling their hair out about tariffs and
about interest rates. And those people
are not part of the mag 7, right?
They're not going to be reporting
earnings, but those companies are
hurting because of the underlying
economic conditions. So the market and
the economy are again two very different
things for So, so is your expectation
then even if we don't have data, the Fed
continues on a rate cutting cycle for
this year.
>> Certainly for this week, u I think we
will start to have data by the time the
December meeting comes along. That's our
expectation. So, in the absence of any
kind of break in the trend, it looks
like they do continue to cut interest
rates. The market may be overpricing
rate cuts for next year. Again, unless
the labor market falls apart, in which
case we are dramatically underpricing
the degree to which they will ease. And
this is why we we are not rooting for
more rate cuts because more rate cuts
from what's priced in means that the
economy has tipped into recession if not
something close to it.
>> Just want to pick up on something
something you said the market and the
economy are not the same things to us.
It's an important distinction to make an
obvious one at times as well. Are there
limits to that for you and the team?
>> Sure. So you look at things like how
much of the economy is being driven by
capital expenditures on things like
software and hardware related to AI. Um,
part of it is that the money that's
going there, if in the absence of an AI
boom, would be probably going to other
areas. It' be more construction
happening on the residential side, more
construction happening generally on the
commercial side. So, we're not we don't
think that this this economy is is
overleveraged at the moment to to AI
because there's a lot of momentum behind
the capex there and it's probably
stronger than it would be in the absence
of AI. But there's things that are
crumbling around the edges like how many
people are getting hired, um, how easy
is it for businesses to find workers.
The fact that those two things can
happen at the same time tells you there
there's something not quite right in the
underlying economy. It's not being
exhibited in the stock market and not in
the credit markets either, which which
have, you know, recovered pretty
impressively from that one kind of
Friday we had.
>> So, what you have to see to really get
behind the broadening out trade, right?
I mean, we've been talking a lot about
when is that going to start when are we
going to start seeing the benefits of
all the capex spending from AI and the
benefits from some of the efficiencies
of scale move out to the rest of the
economy and become an economic story?
What are you looking for to understand
that? We like to see hiring picking up.
We'd like to see the absence of layoffs
in the next quarter or or two to let us
know we're kind of out of the woods and
we've kind of achieved that whatever we
talk about a soft landing now for three
years, but we we get there. That's
really when the broadening trade
happens. Um if you think you're late in
the cycle and things are continuing to
get worse, that's not when things tend
to broaden out, right? That's when
you're moving from cyclical to
defensive. You're going to move from
from extremely broad to extremely
concentrated. So, it's really going to
be in the labor market data of the next
couple of months that tells us whether
we are sort sort of softly landing here
asmmptically approaching a sustainable
rate of growth or whether we're going
through that rate of growth.
>> Brian, aren't these two things though
tethered together? An AI boom, doesn't
that mean we are likely going to have a
weaker labor market? Because isn't that
the whole point of what AI is doing?
>> Typically, with these kind of
technological breakthroughs, you don't
see people losing their jobs in mass. So
whether it's mechanized farming, whether
it's the internet, industrial age, you
tend to see people just start to move
differently, work differently, there's
different areas that produce jobs. We
have never been in a situation where
we've had job losses because of a
technological revolution. Um, this one
you would need to see a lot of
productivity growth. If you if you
believe that AI is affecting the the
economy, you need to see a lot of
productivity growth, which would mean
maybe absence of hiring, but very strong
GDP growth. And that might mean all else
equal that people's wages should be
going up um even if there's not strong
hiring because the types of jobs that
people are doing are now higher value
because AI is probably going to be
taking care of the people that are doing
kind of more wrote jobs or jobs that can
be easily automated.
>> I hope you're right. There's just a
sense and Luke Cow has written about
this. He's done fantastic work. I think
that it's regressive up front, that it's
causing some hesitancy amongst employers
and hiring managers to know what to do
here because it might be a wasted hire
and it's also pushing up electricity
prices across the country. So, I hope
you're right. You hope you're right. I
think we all hope you're right. But in
the near term, we got a bit of a problem
potentially.
>> Yeah. And this is a reason why it's
important to understand how companies
are starting to deploy this. Is it just
saying, well, instead of hiring somebody
that we have to train and spend time on,
we can just chat GPT and have a good
day. uh while energy prices go up, then
it's a problem. If you have a systematic
way of trying to deploy it through the
workforce to try to understand what
efficiencies you can produce, well, that
might be a more of an issue down the
line, but it might have a less
regressive effort at least up front.
>> It's a happy conversation for your
Monday morning. Equities here at alltime
highs on the S&P 500. Brian Nick there
of New Edge Wealth. Brian, thank you.
Thank you. Good to see you, sir. Thank
you very much. Let's keep an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Yah for more.
Hey, Yah.
>> Hi, John. A US military helicopter and a
fighter [music] jet crashed in the South
China Sea about 30 minutes apart on
Sunday. The US Navy said a Seahawk
helicopter went down while conducting
routine [music] operations just before a
Super Hornet crashed. The Navy said all
five people involved in the incidents
were safe and investigations are [music]
underway.
Meanwhile, Canadian Prime Minister Mark
Carney says his government is prepared
to resume trade talks with the US at any
time. President Trump said last week he
was calling off the talks and imposed an
additional 10% tariff on Canadian goods.
Trump was angered after the province of
Ontario aired an anti-tariff ad
featuring former US President Ronald
[music] Reagan.
And two men have been arrested in
connection to last week's major jewel
heist at the Louv. [music] One suspect
was arrested at Paris's Char de Gal
airport while trying to board a plane to
Algeria [music] and the other and the
second was arrested as he was about to
travel to Mali. According to police, the
[music] French national police are still
searching for two other perpetrators.
That's Schwinberg. John
>> Yara, why would you go there to Charles
the go? [clears throat]
>> The last place I would go.
>> It sounds like these were sort of
amateurs. They left a construction vest
[music] somewhere. Did you see that? the
crane that they used the crown.
>> Yeah, they left the crown. They dropped
the crown uh and damaged it. But did you
see that the crane that they used is
this German manufacturer that is now
using this as an advertisement. They're
saying, you know, look, it can be
brought anywhere and it's effective.
>> Europe has such poorest borders. It's so
easy to get in.
>> How do they find it so difficult to get
out?
>> Well, I [music] again, amateur hour,
>> you know,
>> work on it. I came in for the movie.
>> We know how it ends now at an airport.
Charles the goal apparently. [music] And
next on the program, closing in on a
deal.
>> We're gonna have a a great talk. Uh I
have a lot of respect for President Xi.
I like him a lot. He likes me a lot. I
think we're going to have a successful
transaction.
>> That conversation up next with Janette
Lowe of Strategus live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Following the biggest oneweek gain on
the S&P 500 since August, [music]
equities add some weight to the rally.
Up by 0.8 on the S&P 500 on the Nasdaq
up by 1.2. Under surveillance this
morning, closing in on a deal.
what we understood yesterday or two days
ago or even today is not going to be
necessarily what it's going to be in two
days. We're going to have a a great
talk. Uh I have a lot of respect for
President Xi. I like him a lot. He likes
me a lot, I believe, and respects me and
I think he respects our country a lot
and we're going to have I think we're
going to have a successful transaction
for both countries.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump and the Chinese leader
gearing up to finalize a trade deal this
week as top negotiators from both
countries agree to a framework. Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Tokyo, Japan
for more. So Tyler, we heard from the
Treasury Secretary over the weekend as
well. It sounds like China's going to
buy soybeans. Also sounds like they'll
delay restrictions around things like
rare earths. What is the US conceding in
return if anything?
Well, John, at this point, it seems like
both sides are trying to tee up some
diplomatic wins, but we should caution
that still some of those main uh issues
of conflict remain unresolved. Now, it
appears that the US is going to take off
the table that threat of an additional
100% tariff, effectively meaning that
we're likely expecting this extension to
the tariff truce that is currently in
place in exchange for these concessions
that you just outlined, including uh the
purchases of soybeans as well as a
review of the recently unveiled export
curves related to critical and rare
earth minerals. China has also said it's
expecting the US to no longer impose
fees on Chinese ships that are docked at
US uh ports. And while the US maintains
that it's not going to change any of its
export controls related to advanced
semiconductors, our own analysts at
Bloomberg Economics say that the US is
likely going to take off the table some
of those proposed those threatened but
not yet imposed uh export controls and
restrictions related to critical
software and also cloud computing. But
you're right, at this point it really
those top lines are that we're seeing a
pullback of what has been recently
threatened in recent weeks, but not
really progress when it comes to the
broader uh trade framework. But John,
that's why I'm watching really closely
what happens to that 20% tariff that's
tied closely to fentanyl because that
tariff has been in place really since
the beginning of the administration. It
was one of the first tariffs imposed
back in February. And both sides are
saying that they are making progress
when it comes to that issue. So
potentially we could see some sort of
concession there.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you and good evening to you of
course. Good luck with your travels over
the next few days. Joining us now to
discuss Janette Low Strategus Janette.
So we know what the president's
priorities are. He's articulated them
pretty well. Fentinel, soybeans, rare
earths. What does China want on the
table for Xi Jinping this coming
Thursday?
Yeah, I mean obviously China has been
pushing um to show that it has a lot of
leverage in these talks with the rare
earth export restrictions that it
proposed and obviously one of the things
that they have been talking about is
whether or not they could get some sort
of deal on the US stepping back on its
support for Taiwan. That has been
something that has been proposed in the
past. Obviously, Secretary of State
Rubio put um you know kind of said that
was off the table in these talks. I
think obviously the the bigger picture
here is that the US and China are kind
of trying to keep maintaining the status
quo in their relationship. So we keep
talking about having soybean purchases
and we're talking about making sure that
there is still access to rare earth um
mineral exports and things of that
nature, but we aren't making a lot of
significant progress on other issues.
Now, as Tyler mentioned, if we were to
actually see that 20% tariff rate for
goods um for fentinel that have been
placed on Chinese goods, that would
actually be significant. That would be a
big upside if that actually were to come
to pass. But we're focused on the fact
that the US is really trying to derisk
from China for in critical areas like
critical minerals. That has been what
this has all been about to some extent
to show where the US has um over
reliance on China and where it needs to
actually step back and try to develop
new relationships and you've seen that
repeatedly um over the past week with um
the US making deals with Australia doing
deals potentially with Malaysia to try
to focus on critical minerals. So there
is also this focus on trying to derisk
in these critical sectors while we're
maintaining the status quo in the
USChinese relationship. Well, the
Treasury Secretary says China is going
to give a year basically as a deferment
when it comes to the rare earth export
controls. How much can the US make a
dent into China's stronghold on rare
earth in a year's time?
>> Absolutely. And that's a really good
point. I mean, obviously a year would be
much better than 90 days. um which is
kind of the framework that we've been
working under for the past um 6 months
or so where we keep having 30-day
deadlines and then the US and China have
to talk and there's always been this
risk since back in April that China does
withhold uh these goods and that's
really important. Obviously a year is
probably not enough time to make
significant progress but I think one of
the things that is interesting is that
the Trump administration is trying to
rebalance this relationship and you
cannot remove the entire reliance within
a year. But one thing I thought was
really interesting in looking at the
deals that were announced with Malaysia
and Cambodia was that the US is also
trying to put other pieces of its agenda
into these agreements. So having those
countries ban uh goods that have been
made with forced labor that is a target
at China. Having them try to adopt
similar measures to what the US adopts
with regard to unfair trade practices. I
thought that was quite significant. So
they're trying to get other countries to
also focus on China. the fact that it
can evade US tariffs by doing
transshipment of goods through other
countries. They're trying to do this in
all of the trade deals that we've seen,
focusing on rules of origin, focusing on
trans shshipment of goods, trying to
actually increase investment
restrictions on China and other
countries. So, there is still this
rebalancing act. Obviously, it is going
to take quite a bit of time, and that's
also why I'd be a little bit surprised
if there were to be a lowering of
tariffs on China in this agreement. Next
week, the Supreme Court's also going to
be hearing oral arguments when it comes
to legality of Trump using AIPA to enact
these tariffs that he has on China. Is
that playing into these trade talks that
are happening this week?
>> I mean, I think it probably is to some
extent. I think the administration
probably wants to have some of these
deals in place before any decision comes
down. Now, we may not have a decision
until January or February of next year,
but I think he's trying to get these
agreements in place so that even if
there was the potential for tariffs to
be overturned, maybe he could point to
these deals saying, "Let's keep these in
place and not have to rework the tariffs
in another way." Obviously, the
administration does have a backup plan.
So, if the Supreme Court were to
overrule the tariffs, they have a
two-step process to reimpose them, doing
a balance of payment tariff for about
150 days while they do section 301
investigations into countries unfair
trade practices to then reimpose the
tariffs that essentially we have today
within 4 to 5 months time. But I think
trying to get these agreements in place
now also allows the administration to
then say we can keep these agreements in
place rather than going that backup
route and having to do a whole new
investigation and potentially even see
higher tariffs.
>> What have we learned in terms of the
agreements that have already been struck
or the frameworks that have come out of
the meetings over the past couple of
days with Malaysia and Cambodia, the
expectation for Vietnam and Thailand?
Are we expecting some sort of ailaration
of the source of origin issue? the idea
that potentially uh some of the goods
from China materials that go into their
output to the US could be tariffed at
that 40 50% level. Do you have a sense
of whether the US is forcing some of
these countries to choose between the US
and China?
>> The US is trying to do that. The US is
trying to push countries. We've seen it
when the talks with, you know, if you
think about what's been going on with
Mexico in particular, the fact that
Mexico is now increasing tariffs on
goods from China as well as other
countries with which it does not have a
free trade agreement. That is kind of
speaking to this rules of origin issue.
The fact that the Malaysia agreement
also had things like making sure that
they abiding by US export controls and
trying to prevent goods that would be
restricted to China from the US side,
also on the Malaysian side. So, they're
trying to do that. Obviously, it's not
going to be easy. These countries have
also had good relationship closer trade
relationships with China. So, it's going
to be hard to unpack over time, but you
are definitely starting to see movement.
Now, the 40% trans shshipment uh tariff
that's been threatened over any of those
goods, we haven't seen that announced
yet. I think it was also interesting
that while the Trump administration kept
all of these goods um tariffed at a 19%
rate for Malaysia, Cambodia, Vietnam um
and Thailand currently, there are some
restrictions being lifted. So, there was
exemptions for certain goods that are
not produced in the United States that
could come down to zero and maybe over
time we can see some some more forward
moving progress. But this is all going
to take quite a bit of time to actually
get any sort of reordering of US trade.
And I think that is ultimately the
administration's goal. So it's going to
take some time before we actually get
there.
>> Janette, appreciate it. Thank you.
Janette Low a strategist. The tap down
continues. I think there's two big
objectives here. To derisk without much
disruption. That's one. That's
ultimately what the US wants to achieve.
Get earths ready, the refining capacity
ready domestically without the
disruption caused by the Chinese in the
meantime. But the bigger one, the bigger
one for the global economy is to get the
Chinese economy to rebalance and move
away from this overcapacity to boost
consumption. We have been talking about
this now for well over a decade and you
can see in the trade numbers. Bremo.
Fact of the matter is tariffs are super
high relative to where they were at the
start of the year and China is still on
course to run a record trade surplus for
2025.
>> And if you take a look at the earnings
of European auto manufacturers, you can
see it show up and that is where a lot
of these goods are being shipped. You
can see this in other countries as well.
So right now there's a shell game going
on. who's going to be allies with who
and who's getting hurt versus being
helped in terms of inflation and the
disinflationary ramifications from this.
This is a huge issue for the global
scale and you could say maybe we're not
making progress, but in some ways there
is a coalescing of a certain degree of
allies saying something's [music] got to
shift.
>> The Europeans are getting absolutely
decimated by this. Up next on the
program, Vtos Spaduto of RBC with M&A
deals hitting new highs. Plus, Danny's
got some morning movers for you. Shares
of Dr. Pepper higher after a [music]
boost to their outlook. The stock is up
by 5.5%.
[music]
Two days of gains on the S&P 500 adding
some way to win this morning. Up by 0.8%
a record high Friday. We're on course
for record highs later on this morning
when this market opens at 9:30 Eastern
time. on the NASDAQ 100 going into tech
earnings later this week higher by 1.3%
in the bond market going into a Fed
decision on Wednesday. Lots of debt
supply 2-year bond yields this morning
350 up by two basis points 10's up three
to 4.03 as we start to get more of a
constructive tone around US China trade
[music] talks. That's the number three
issue not in any necessary order. got
earnings, Fed decision, and that meeting
later this week on Thursday between Xi
Jinping and [music] President Donald
Trump. As we count you down to the
opening bow, let's get you some morning
movers. Here's Danny with more. Hey
Danny. Hey John. Over the weekend, a
victory for Mule, the president of
Argentina's party. So, just tracking
what some of the US ADRs and other
Argentinian exposed stocks are doing. A
great way to do that is the ETF tracking
it here in the [music] US pre-market. It
is up 16.5%. confidence that that
victory will allow the economic reforms
to continue in [music] Argentina behind
that with the support of the United
States. So those shares gaining there.
Some deal news to work through as well
in the past hour. Uh Huntington
announcing that they will be buying
Cadence Bank in a deal worth over $7
billion. The floodgates are open for
regional [music] bank deals. Uh we also
had Huntington just last week actually
close another acquisition of Vertex,
another uh financial services company.
Just last week it had closed that. So
now it's going in cadence bank shares
[music] up just under 2%. Finally we got
earnings from cure egg Dr. Pepper and it
was a raise to their outlook for net
sales for the entirety of the year. The
[music] earnings for this quarter were
strong too. Interestingly it was because
prices were higher for coffee. Volumes
[music] were actually lower. Also off
the back of this they announced that
they would be getting a $7 billion
investment coming led by KKR and Apollo
in the spin-off that they're doing of
their coffee unit. They get a minority
stake of that. So shares up about six
and a quarter percent. John
>> Danny, thank you. Do you watch the race
over the weekend?
>> Of course. Always watching every single
race. It was chaos and it was wonderful.
>> Who's going to win this? Danny, who's
going to make this happen? Formula 1
world champion.
>> I thought it was Pastry, but after last
weekend, I I I think it's Norris. I
think Norris has this.
>> T-Max. That's what they call him. Max
Vstappen now. [music] T-Max. Danny,
thank you. Thank you very much. Let's
give you an update on stories worldwide.
On our radar this morning, Argentinian
President Jav Mille's party, winning a
critical midterm vote. The results
strengthening Mille's foothold in
Congress, allowing him to pursue free
market policies with billions of dollars
in backing from the Trump
administration. Elsewhere, the New York
City may election is just over a week
away with the Democratic Socialist Sar
Mani leading the polls. He's working to
make inroads with the business community
and holding meetings with lobbying
groups and bank CEOs, including Jamie
Diamond. And finally, the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson announcing the
top five finalists to replace Fed Chair
Jay Pal. Besson says he's planning on a
second round of interviews and President
Trump saying he could announce the
nominee before the end of the year.
>> I think it's interesting it hasn't been
done already and I think that that
speaks to the idea that keeping this
question mark around the Fed is probably
beneficial to this administration. I
keep going back to that Financial Times
article with Scott Bess at the Secretary
of Treasury where he's talking Treasury
Secretary where he said, "We want the
most America first policies that are
possible without incurring market
wrath." and you look at long-term
inflation expectations and it speaks to
Fed credibility and this idea that maybe
people are really counting on him to
pick a Fed chair that will have
credibility with the markets, not just
the president. I also think we need to
remember that the Treasury Secretary is
not on this list. But at the same time,
the longer this goes on, if Trump at the
end of the year doesn't like these five
candidates presented to him, is there
more of a potential that the Treasury
Secretary ultimately is forced to go do
this job? How familiar is he with all
those names?
>> Treasury secretary very
>> the president
familiar with I would say three of them
especially Kevin Hass that's his
national economic council director sees
him on TV all the time carrying the flag
on what the Trump administration is
doing. Um he obviously knows uh Governor
Waller because he was appointed to the
Fed during Trump won but others not so
much. the person he knows and trusts a
lot. And in that Financial Times story,
Senator Dave McCormack was talking about
this to the Financial Times, Scott
Bessant is the person that President
Donald Trump really trusts when it comes
to the economy in this administration.
>> That's what I was getting at. That's why
that name still kind of linkers in this
conversation even though the Treasury
Secretary is not exactly entertaining
it. The race goes on. We'll find out
year round potentially over the next few
months. Got to talk about this market
and the amount of M&A activity we've
seen over the summer and into the end of
the year. Over $900 billion in deals
completed so far this year with another
$1.1 trillion in the works on pace for a
59% rise from a year ago. Vtosuto of RBC
Capital Markets US writing the market
tone has shifted from waiting for an
optimal window to moving into execution
mode. More discussions of large deals,
more preparation, more momentum. Vita
joins us now for more. Vita, good
morning.
>> Good morning. Good to be here.
>> We spoke only recently. Are things
picking up even more over the past few
weeks?
>> I mean, I I I just think about the past
uh I was here at the beginning of the
month and just the tone as was just
talked about has clearly shifted. Uh
we've gone from trying to time the right
window and we always talk to clients
about the importance of being prepared
to execute on your strategic initiatives
and being prepared to access the window
when it opens. Well, the window feels
open and I think we're back we're into
full execution mode with many of our
clients.
>> Could you give us a sense of how much
it's accelerating?
>> Uh I mean just to give you a sense in in
this past couple of weeks um the volume
year to date both from a global
perspective and from a US perspective
has exceeded full year last year. So,
just to kind of, you know, and we've
also seen where uh total volume was up
about 28 to 30% um globally and US-wise
at the end of the third quarter, we're
now talking about up 35 to 38%. We've
seen some larger deals announced,
especially across the technology space,
the healthc care space. Um but more
importantly, we've also seen the tone of
the dialogue out there has become uh
more active. Clearly, there's some
larger companies talking about
devestatures, strategic initiatives,
publicly announcing that they're
considering alternatives. Um, and so
those are all, you know, big signs. At
at the same time, um, I would still
label it as a cautious environment. Um,
I'm not seeing clients cut corners. I'm
not seeing them rush into something. Uh,
I think boards are certainly checking
um, dotting every eye, crossing every
tea. Uh, they're making sure they've
done their full diligence. They're
making sure that the financing they're
going to use is buttoned up, especially
as we're heading into an environment
where maybe there's some concerns about
some of the financial structures that
have been used historically.
>> So, this to me is fascinating, the idea
that you're seeing something and it
speaks to what people talk about with
AI. It looks frothy, but it's not a
bubble yet. M&A, it looks like it's
getting really heated, but it's not a
bubble yet. It's not really problematic
yet. And I just wonder what's the
motivation behind this. Is it because
you are seeing the expectation for Fed
rate cuts? Is it because there's more uh
policy certainty? Is it just catchup?
>> Yeah, I I think it's a it's a clearer
environment in terms of being able to
execute on your strategical initiatives.
Uh from a government perspective, a
regulatory review perspective, we're
seeing clients consider transactions
that maybe 9 12 months ago they would
not have stepped into because they were
concerned about would the government
approve this transaction. And so I think
there's been a more constructive tone
out of the agencies. uh we've seen them
um certainly accept remedies much more
so in terms of you go into a transaction
you say well this might be an issue but
I'll consider these devestatures to
satiate the regulators and I think
that's become uh an environment where
you can think about how to
constructively do something
>> are there particular industries that
you're seeing robust activity is this
the banking industry is the tech sector
in particular what are the deregulatory
areas that are kind of getting juiced by
the current
>> landscape I mean as we talked about last
time it's always technology and
healthare there uh and you look at the
aligned data centers deal and hologic in
the past month or few weeks as two of
the largest deals announced year to
date. Uh and they highlight those two
sectors are always leading the pace. Um
we we're seeing some around energy. I
think we're seeing a fair bit around
financial services. We certainly saw a
significant bank deal announced this
morning. I think there's more being
talked about there. Uh and and I think
that's an area where if you look at what
the regulators from that perspective are
considering, they're allowing more of
those to come together.
>> When it comes to the government
shutdown, has it been an impediment yet?
>> Not yet. I think it's noise that's being
monitored. Um on November 5th, it'll
become the longest shutdown in history.
Um I think the we talked about it last
time, the poly markets now are, you
know, are betting I think it's 52% is
going to be November 16th or beyond. I
think the vacuum of data is starting to
cause some concerns because I think it's
becoming more about expectation and
estimates as we're seeing um you know
what's going on there. Um you know we're
going to hear a Fed decision later this
week likely to be a rate cut again. Um
and so I think part of it the longer it
goes on as soon as we start seeing you
know we we joked earlier about you know
how many flights people are on and the
fact that you're starting to see some
delays whether it's over the weekend and
a lot of the business travel going on.
um you know, government employees are
starting to miss paychecks. I think more
and more of that happening, you're going
to see it impact things. Uh and
certainly, you know, when you start
getting longer, you start impacting GDP,
uh going forward. Now, there's always an
argument that you recapture it at some
point, but you know, that starts to
become a concern.
>> You mentioned the Federal Reserve. How
relevant are those rate reductions to
the broader story of the acceleration
that you've articulated?
>> Yeah, we we talked about it last time. I
mean, I I I think it's a it's it's
helpful. I think it's a good signal. Um,
but I I also think when you look at the
overall environment and what people are
thinking about, um, you know, there was
a CEO confidence survey that just came
out um, a couple of weeks ago from the
conference board and it was basically
flat to the third quarter. It's sort of
a there's a a strong view going forward,
but it's certainly cautious and it's
right at the midpoint at about 48 where
50 is kind of the neutral level. But
when you looked at what CEOs identified
as their number one concerns, it's
geopolitical instability at the top of
the list. Trade and tariffs was up there
and it dropped to fifth. Um the other
ones that they are concerned about is um
the um uptick in sort of um uh
innovations around AI and how they
impact their businesses. And so when you
look at what CEOs are thinking about,
even though they might not be impacted
by geopolitical issues somewhere else,
they're still thinking about it's that
noise externally.
>> Financial conditions just is not the
complaint right now. Credit spreads are
super tight. Equity markets, we've been
talking about it all morning, sky-high.
>> Yeah. Right now, it seems like there's a
window that's open even though you've
got uh benchmark yields above 4% if you
look at the 10-year. I mean, it just
sort of goes to this question of what is
it that could potentially styy some of
this activity? And does it suggest that
maybe this is closer to neutral than
anything else cuz companies are able to
adapt to this?
>> Well, I I think the other thing is if
start noticing what's the commentary is
when when earnings announcements are
being made. You you hear mention of the
shutdown, but you're not hearing about
the significant impact on their
businesses. Um I think you're hearing
some caution and saying, well maybe are
you know quote unquote are we in a
bubble or you know should we be careful
what we're taking on? But they're still
proceeding. So, they're thinking about
it and I think everybody has a lot of
history here and doesn't want to be
caught as the the party that's jumping
in at the last minute when things are
going in a difficult direction.
>> Have you seen the leverage cycle start
yet?
>> Have you started to see that come into
some of these deals?
>> A little bit in I I think the larger
deals are are set up um uh in an
appropriate fashion because the largest
players in the credit in the credit
cycle or the credit environment are
participating in those transactions. I
think when you're hearing some noise in
places that have had issues from a
financing structure perspective, it's
really been some ancillary players that
have been in those transactions and so
it's been less of a concern. Um, but you
know, Jonathan, I think the we're
sitting here with corporates probably
the healthiest that I've seen them in
decades. And it again you go through um
the financial crisis, you go through co
demonstrated there was a resilience in
balance sheets and also a resilience in
business models where you learn to pivot
quickly. You learn not to just take one
path going forward. You thought about
multiple paths and you were able to make
decisions and move your business. Um,
think about earlier this year and how
quickly uh a lot of companies shifted
and brought business, you know, back on
shore and you don't hear that that tone
uh as much anymore.
>> Vita, it's good to see you.
>> Great to be here.
>> Thanks for being here. Vita Spaduto
there of RBC Capital Markets US with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief back with us. Here's
Yahara. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. President Trump has arrived in
Japan for a series of meetings, telling
reporters he's excited to meet with new
Japanese Prime Minister [music] Sana
Takichi. The president will meet with
Japanese Emperor Naruhitu today ahead of
the prime minister on Tuesday. [music]
He will also hold a dinner with
corporate leaders on Tuesday night.
Meanwhile, the US government shutdown is
now in its 27th day. NBC [music] is
reporting the country's largest union
representing federal workers is urging
Democrats [music]
to drop their demand to extend healthc
care subsidies and join Republicans in
supporting a stop gap resolution.
And in sports, [music] the World Series
is tied at one game a piece. The Blue
Jays dominated game one, winning 11 to
four with a huge nine run sixth inning.
[music] Dodgers bounced back in game
two, winning five to one behind a
dominant complete game performance from
pitcher Yoshu Nibbu Yamamoto. Game three
is tonight in [music] LA. Gretchenber
Reef. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks very much. Up
next on the program, the Fed under
pressure.
>> I think they're under pressure to cut
and I think they will tend to do that.
They have to be pretty careful about how
much they signal more cuts going
forward.
>> Greg Peters of PGM up next, live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[music]
The message coming from the
administration over the weekend pretty
clear. I think we have a really good
chance of making a very comprehensive
deal. The market gets it. It rallies
hard. Up by 0.8% 8% on the S&P 500.
Message received up by 1.2% on the
NASDAQ 100. That meeting between Xi
[music] and Trump taking place this
coming Thursday. The day before that,
this right here under surveillance this
morning, the Fed under pressure.
Our main issues going forward as far as
inflation goes is the pressure on the
Fed and the ability of Congress to to
find some kind of compromise around the
fiscal challenges that are are building.
I think they're under pressure to cut
and I think they will tend to do that.
They have to be pretty careful about how
much they signal more cuts going
forward. So here's the latest this
morning. Optimism over a US China trade
deal pushing bond yields higher. The
move comes as investors price in another
rate cut later this week. Greg Pisian
fixed income writing the following
near-term dynamics remain challenging
policy sensitive and under fiscal stress
which may add pressure on rates. Greg
joins us now for more. Greg, welcome
back. Do you think supply issues might
reassert themselves as a problem in the
coming months?
>> Uh I don't think supply is so much a
problem in the coming months but I think
next year uh is a very different supply
story. Um uh but I think the bigger
issue is you know you saw it in the CPI
release is that you are seeing inflation
pressures away from rents and OEER right
and um and I expect that to continue uh
into next year and what I really worry
about is that investors are very much of
the mind the Fed's going to continue to
cut inflation is you know a 2021 story
largely contended with and I think the
risk is uh you're cutting into a a a
higher growth, higher inflation
environment. And the question is what
does the bond market think about that
ultimately?
>> So Greg, your point is interesting
because this market took comfort from
what was happening with shelter, but
you're taking anxiety from what happens
everybody else everywhere else. Greg, do
you think the market's going to come
around to your point of view and why?
Well, so I think the shelter component
what has been an incredible
disinflationary uh uh driver this year
and that's actually given kind of the
broad CPI or disinflation numbers cover
right but as we go into next year you'll
have continued pressure uh around those
goods particularly those you know
affected by tariffs and you know this is
a a story that's leaking out over time
this is not a oneshot type of uh uh uh
idea uh and so Next year you have
shelter either flattening out or even
maybe moving higher and that just
changes the game I think and I think
that is underappreciated.
>> Right now I'm looking at break even
rates that are at the lowest levels
going back to earlier this year. I'm
looking at inflation expectations over
the longer term. It's just falling
significantly over the past couple of
months. Why do you think that is? I mean
why do you think the market so
profoundly disagrees with this higher
inflation, higher growth view, at least
based on market measurements?
I don't know that is something that
really confounds me honestly when uh I
think about you know next year uh you
know that is the most uh central figure
that I look at so what has a twofold
effect number one uh obviously uh it's a
markets measure uh around longerterm
inflation but also you know there's lots
of talk around the Fed you know what
happens with the Lisa Cook case what
happens with the new Fed chair you know
what happens to the kind of the the path
of rates are we really moving to this uh
really easy type of environment. Um and
if the market starts to get spooked
around that that's going to manifest
itself not only in the US dollar but in
fiveyear 5year break even. So I look at
that uh and I do scratch my head uh and
you know for my money that is something
that I'm kind of looking the other way.
What what I think it should be higher
not lower.
>> How much are you actually betting
against some of these longerdated bonds?
I mean right now we're looking at a
corporate sector that's in pretty good
shape. You can make the argument that
you should get spider uh tighter spreads
and at the same time when you look at
the government bond market there's a
sort of mystery wrapped in an enigma
about inflation and why is not being
priced in more. How actively
aggressively are you betting against
where things are now?
>> Well, what makes it incredibly tricky is
just the the uncertainty component
around not only tariffs, right? We have
a Supreme case court case that's coming
due, you know, what happens, you know,
after that. Well, and then there's lots
of worries, I guess, around changes in
issuance, changes in, you know,
buybacks. Uh, and so investors are a
little leerary to, you know, lean too
much into the curve steepner and the
back end of the curve in particular just
because you can see that change in
dynamics, uh, that could kind of catch,
uh, investors by surprise. So, I think
there's a tenative nature around it. Uh,
so I see it more cleanly, you know, from
twos, tens and that part of the curve.
as you go further out uh uh you're
you're more exposed to, you know, these
certain vagaries.
>> Greg, that's the Treasury market and
we've touched on the supply there. We'll
get tons this week. Let's talk about the
corporate supply that's coming this week
as well and what it's financing. Greg,
is this market still wide open for this
kind of debt issuance to finance the
capex stories that we've been talking
about in the media every single day?
>> It is for now. So there's just a
tremendous amount uh you know I start to
scratch my head uh you know as you go
out the curve particularly on the
unsecured side. So there's been some
deals in the marketplace that really
don't make a lot of sense to me
necessarily. Uh you know but this is a
tremendous buildout. There's a
tremendous amount of circularity around
it. Uh so this is you know something
that I think makes sense today but as we
go through this cycle I worry about the
refinancing aspect. um but and
ultimately the AI, you know, adoption
and the the return on investment that
these companies need in order to make
sense and uh and that's what starts to
worry me. But as of right now, Jonathan,
the markets are open. Everyone's all in
on the AI trade, both sides of the debt
and equity aisle. But at some point,
there has to be a return on that
invested capital. Um and um you know, we
shall see. Well, Greg, with that in
mind, how closely does someone like you
watch the earnings as they come in on
Wednesday, on Thursday?
>> Yeah. So, I think earnings are
incredibly important here. Uh, you know,
we have these long-term structural
issues that we worry about, but
honestly, from an investor standpoint,
right, you worry about the cash flows
and the earnings in the here and now.
And so, I think it's crucial to kind of
keep this market afloat. But, you know,
as long as you see, you know, a pretty
reasonably strong corporate environment
and backdrop, I don't really see this
bull market changing, you know, anytime
soon. So, it's about the near-term data
that's allowing investors to kind of
look past maybe some of the longer term
structural issues that we talked about,
namely Fed independence and, you know,
some other areas.
>> Greg, appreciate it. Thank you, sir.
Greg Peters there of PGM. Looking ahead
to those earnings coming Wednesday,
Thursday, more than $10 trillion of
market cap on Wednesday. Same again on
Thursday. Just tons and tons of tech
earnings. We talked about potential
constraints around the AI story. The
conversation naturally drifts towards
energy. Greg's really talking about
whether this market's going to close up
at some point and push back.
>> Yeah, right now it's not. And right now
it's wide open and people are buying the
$ 38 billion in Oracle debt. You've seen
tech companies issue more debt now that
is outstanding than even the financial
sector, which is pretty notable. You
start to wonder at what point people
start to get skittish around what
potentially they could get in terms of
efficiencies and monetization of some of
this. The fact that credit investors are
watching earnings and that you could get
bad earnings that torpedo the stock
market and the credit market at the same
time highlight how systemically risky
some of these companies have become
albeit very solid in their credit market
saying do more green light lever up a
little bit. You don't need a credit
rating that high do some more.
>> They're saying we want to be part of the
trend too. Can you give us something to
work with too? and they're saying,
"Sure, here you go. Here are some
bonds." So, right now, they're saying
this is the way to go. And frankly, uh
there's no sense right now that it's not
coming to fruition in the balance sheets
of these companies. We shall see. It's
the big test this week.
>> A lot of supply coming this week. Up
next on the program, Abi Yoda of JP
Morgan Private Bank, Angelo Zeno of CFR
to talk about those tech earnings. Puja
Sriram of Barclays, Null Dixon of State
Street. The third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance is just around the corner.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Earning season has become front and
center. and earnings have been strong.
>> People are investing more seriously than
ever before, at least in the US.
>> This market has continued to rally and
probably draws more and more people off
the sidelines.
>> This is a very good economy for
equities.
>> The underlying thesis on consumers and
business spend [music] is positive.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now and
your scores look like this. Alltime
highs on Friday. [music] Same again this
Monday morning. Up across the board on
the S&P 500 higher by 0.8 on the NASDAQ
up by 1.2. With stocks up, bonds are
down. Yields are higher across the
curve. Twos 10 30s. Bond yields up by
two basis points on 10. Just north of 4%
going into this. Been waiting for this
week for quite a while. The busiest
[music] week for earnings season so far.
This is it. Coming up on Wednesday and
Thursday, a Federal Reserve rate
decision and these [music] talks that
are really fueling this market this
morning between the US and China.
>> It's sort of like all the uncertainty
could [music] potentially be taken off
the table this week. You could, not all
of it. I mean, not to exaggerate, but
you take a look at the idea that you
could get some resolution between the US
and China. You could get 27 trillion of
market capitalization in companies that
are reporting earnings that have been
the backbone of this rally so far this
year. And you could get a Fed that does
just sort of seal the deal. 25 [music]
basis point rate cut this week and then
again signaling one more the end of the
year. You have your certain backdrop the
systems all ago and that's why risk is
rallying. [music]
>> Dangerous talk but year end type
feelings going into this week just a
little bit.
>> Yeah, definitely. Especially when it
comes to the trade talks because we
already know that they're being deferred
[music] until next year at least when it
comes to rare earths which for China is
their biggest piece of leverage they
have going into these talks. They
basically said that the 100% tariff that
the president had is being taken off the
table and there's going to be some
soybean purchases. So then we just have
to start thinking about where is this
relationship going [music] in the next
iteration of these talks cuz right now
it's basically going back to status quo.
A truce [music]
>> 2025 is over after Thursday. [laughter]
>> This is what I Okay, what is this? Let's
government shut down.
>> That's what I mean. That's what you're
going to start the the uh show on on a
Monday. Let's get you to year end
because that's sort of where your mind
is at. Honestly, maybe. But there's
>> this mind, isn't there? It's been like
the longest 10 months, 11 months ever.
>> 100%.
>> We have to wait till Nvidia on November
19th. [music] Then it's year end.
>> I feel like it's year over already.
Maybe it's not.
>> Make it happen.
>> It should be. Equity futures [music] on
the S&P up by 0.8%. Coming up this hour,
Abby Yoda of JP Morgan Private Bank as
stocks trade near alltime highs. Angelo
Zeno of CFR previewing big tech earnings
on deck this week. plus pujas ramp of
Barclays with a key Fed rate decision
just around the corner. We begin this
hour with stocks soaring as investors
gear up for a crucial week on Wall
Street. Abby Yoda of JP Morgan private
bank writing, "We believe that the
valuation of the S&P can remain elevated
given technologies growing dominance in
the index and strong profitability."
Abby joins us now for more. Abby, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> How dependable is the earnings story at
the moment?
>> I mean, it feels pretty dependable.
Well, I think expectations have
definitely crept higher as we get to
this very big week of earnings. And you
know, it hasn't always been like
straight up and to the right in terms of
whether or not we hear from these
hyperscalers and they increase their
capex expectations. Like last quarter,
yes, there was positive, you know, price
action, but because you're seeing that,
you know, their their capex is creeping
up as a percent of their operating cash
flow, like there's going to be a lot of
focus on, okay, what is the ROI on this?
And we and the interesting and good
thing is that you are seeing that
trended up into the right as well,
right? like that is moving higher as I
think investors would like that to be a
little bit quicker and I do feel like
we're kind of at this inflection point
in terms of seeing that move higher
>> and that's going to be a big story for
Meta later this week to get stock
specific to talk about sectors what you
like tech financials utilities is that
all the same trade
>> I would say financials are a little bit
different right because they're going to
be more cyclical in nature the way that
we're thinking about them you've got a
lot of things happening that are good
for them in terms of you've got the
yield curve steepening for which is good
for ni net interest income credit was
really benign. I know there were pockets
of a little bit of concern on the lower
end over the past couple of weeks, but
when you think about the GIS, they tend
to be higher quality in nature and don't
have as much of ad exposure and we saw
that in earnings for the most part. Um,
and then you think about like what's
happening from a deregulatory
standpoint, right? Like there were some
rumors last week about CC car or about
Basel 3 coming out being in mids
singledigit of capital requirements
versus the 19% for the large caps that
was floated last year. So that's very
important in terms of that that trade.
>> Yeah. But to build on what John is
talking about, the idea that utilities
are being bolstered and aren't exactly
the safety trade because they are going
to benefit significantly from the tech
trade and the tech trade has fueled
everything else including credit markets
increasingly as the issuance of debt
related to these companies increases. At
what point is this the catalyst this
risk the risk event frankly uh for the
second half of the year? The idea that
the earnings have to show some proof in
not only the capital expenditures but
monetization. Well, I would also say
like if you're thinking about utilities
to your point being more of an AI trade
now like they're not the ones that are
spending all of this capex that you're
waiting to see that ROI like energy is
the bottleneck that they're signing
these agreements with these hyperscalers
so they're the beneficiaries of that
right like you're seeing those cash flow
has already happened for them like
obviously they need to build out these
you know the capability but if you're
thinking about the risk where if you're
looking at the hyperscalers it's like
okay where's the ROI on your capex that
continues to increase at these
eyepopping numbers Utilities are kind of
the other side of that trade, right?
They're the the benefactors of that that
cash flow. So, to your point, like
thinking about where you're seeing um
you know, the increase in earnings, it's
really on the utility side at the
moment, too.
>> What do you have to see in the
Magnificent 7 earnings that could make
you believe in the broadening out trade
that other companies are actually going
to get some efficiencies from the use of
some of the new technology?
>> Well, I mean, I don't know if it's
necessarily from them as much as it's
going to be from the other companies
that are talking about it, right?
because you have seen that. I think the
most interesting sector to really look
at in terms of who's utilizing, how can
you think about it broadening out is
going to be industrials, right? They're
at the kind of like epicenter of all
these different long-term structural
trends in the form of
re-industrialization. And we're all
thinking about trying to be more
efficient in what is like a less
efficient supply chain world, right?
Like when you think about the past 25
years, it's all about efficiency. It's
just in time inventories. We're moving
away from that in the sense that we're
trying to be, you know, very strategic
from a supply chain standpoint. So, how
are you using AI to kind of expedite and
make those processes that would have
been otherwise redundant more efficient
going forward? So, I think that's a
really interesting thing.
>> Going back to how John started this hour
though, the fact that it does feel like
we're almost going into year end, do you
feel like a lot of uncertainty has been
evaporated out of Washington, especially
this week when it comes to our biggest
trading partner? I was shaking my head
the whole time you were talking about
that. It does feel like it's already
December, not withstanding that it's
very cold, but I mean I think I I think
it's interesting that we are kind of
operating in a data vacuum from a
government standpoint and it doesn't
really seem to m I mean we got CPI which
is obviously very important. Um I I
think look you can look at two weeks ago
or three weeks ago when we got the trade
headline around you know rare earths and
this you know re-upping the tariffs
around China and the market was down
right like it was down NASDAQ was down
over 3% that day like there is an
element of okay well that's an embargo
from an economic standpoint that's
hitting the AI trade there's a concern
there so like it feels like we're
getting to the point in the negotiations
where it's going to really matter for
markets is and particularly on the tech
side because that seems to be where the
negotiations are going between these two
countries. But I I so I do think it
matters. I don't think it's like
completely ignoring it. But I do think
at the end of the day, the market was
guessing and betting that this outcome
that we have was going to happen, right?
That it was going to either be delayed
or there was going to be progress made
and it wasn't going to actually be that
headline number that we got that Friday.
>> I'm not going to say it's year over.
Just for the record, cuz bad things can
happen. There's enough time.
>> The year is ending though. Years almost.
>> I think [laughter] by definition, it's
ending.
>> Good things can also happen.
>> It's been ending since June.
>> Good things can happen too. Thanks for
that. Thank you very much. got a few
more months left. Let's hope some good
things happen as well. What are we
taking for granted? I often think about
that because it feels like rate cuts are
the things we're taking for granted
right now. And if I look at all the
research at the moment beyond this
meeting, I'm not sure how you guide into
year end. Things can change in May. And
that feels like a separate story to me
when we get a change of leadership. But
between now and May, are we taking some
rate cuts for granted here?
>> Well, so we actually are expecting less
rate cuts than I would say the market
is. of three through the end of next
year because it does to your point
everything we're talking about it's like
not only do you have the economy on
really solid footing earnings on really
solid footing we're heading into 2026
where you have you know this growth
impulse from the reconciliation bill
both on the consumer and corporate side
where it's like how do you not see a
reaceleration in growth now the way that
you avoid you know this difficult
situation for the Fed is that you see
also a commensurate increase in
productivity so therefore inflation
isn't of as much of an issue but now
that we're in this vacuum in terms of
the labor market. I mean, it's a big
question as what the Fed guides to,
right? Like, it's super super tricky. We
are not envious of of them at all. Um,
but I think, you know, just thinking
about where we're where we're seeing
rates going from here, we have far less
cuts than the market is.
>> So, just give me an idea of what it
looks like, what you're expecting versus
what's priced right now.
>> So, we have three cuts through the end
of next year versus I think five
>> through the end of next year.
>> Yeah.
>> From now.
>> Just three.
>> Okay. Interesting. Abby, if you're right
and this market's wrong, what's
mispriced?
>> Fixed income. Yes.
>> Yeah. Okay. Exactly.
>> Abby, thank you. Yeah, I'd like to think
about that. It's like the punchline. All
right. Abby of JP Morgan Private Bank.
Thank you very much. Can you imagine
that just three from here?
>> Yeah. Well, it really raises the
question. How much is this market
leveraged to the idea of aggressive rate
cuts even regard regardless of what the
economic data is even if we do continue
to get strength? And that's a real key
question. How much is the debt market in
particular? Is it the credit or is it
the government debt market mispriced to
that? And I think that that's what
clearly Greg Peters is wrestling with
given the fact that it seems like a
conundrum to have such robust growth,
sticky inflation, and a Fed that's going
to be aggressively cutting.
>> If that's the case, then someone that
the president puts as the new Fed chair
will not be delivering on what he wants
to see.
>> At the moment, the market's getting the
best of both worlds, gets the earnings
from big tech, which makes up a major
chunk of the S&P 500. The Federal
Reserve's freaking out about something
the market doesn't really care about,
downshift in payroll, so they get the
rate cuts, too. It's like the best of
both worlds at the moment, and I wonder
how much longer that can persist.
>> I guess that the real conundrum has been
that 10-year yields have been so
behaved. So, yes, it has been the best
of both worlds, but the market's not
freaking out about inflation either. And
next year, it is going to be difficult
for any Fed chair that that President
Trump appoints to continue with rate
cuts if you do have it on more 10-year
yield. And that is going to be sort of
the fly in the ointment. And it's a
reason why people are watching this and
saying that Fed chair is going to have
to ultimately be constrained by the
market.
>> Certainly difficult to get the committee
to come with them. Anyway, you mentioned
the bond market tens at the moment. Lisa
is right around 4%. No freak out here.
Yields high by just a single basis
point. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara for more. Hey yara.
>> Hi [music] John. President Trump has
arrived in Japan for a series of
meetings telling reporters he's excited
to meet with new Japanese Prime [music]
Minister Sai Takayichi. The president
will meet with Japanese Emperor Naharu
today ahead of the prime minister on
Tuesday. He will also hold a dinner with
corporate leaders on Tuesday night.
Meanwhile, Hurricane Melissa became the
Atlantic season's third category 5 storm
in [music] the Caribbean this year. The
storm is expected to make landfall in
Jamaica early early tomorrow. More than
800 shelters have been opened across the
island with warnings of unprecedented
damage to facilities and [music]
infrastructure.
And more than 100,000 New Yorkers turned
out this weekend to pick the next mayor
of New York City. The frontr runner
Democratic socialist Zoran Mdani is
running on free buses and freezing
rentstabilized apartments. With only
eight days until election day,
supporters of Andrew Cuomo are pouring
money into a ground game while
Republican Curt Curtis Leewa trails in
third place. That's Bloomberg brief.
John [music]
>> Yhara, thank you. Up next, the morning
calls. Plus, we'll catch up with Angelo
Zeno of CFR as we look ahead to a big
[music] week for big tech from New York
City. Good morning.
[music]
The number one question from clients
[music] is, "Are we in an AI bubble?"
I'm in every single meeting. So maybe
that convinces me that we're not in an
AI bubble, but I think that's going to
be the key catalyst uh this week. I
mean, the earnings season so far has
been amazing, right? 87% of beats, we're
running at 10% growth year on year. I
think if the Mag [music] 7 can continue
to deliver, um that continues to drive a
lot of upside. Big tech in focus this
week, massive earnings reports coming on
Wednesday and on Thursday. That was
Alistister Pinda of HSBC. [music]
Into that all-time highs on the equity
market, up 0.8% 8% on the S&P on the
Nasdaq 100 up by 1.3. That's the price
action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, UBS raising its price
target on ARM to 200, highlighting
easing tariff concerns. Your second call
from Goldman upgrading [music]
Victoria's Secret to neutral, expecting
sustained improvement in brand momentum.
And finally, Guggenheim upgrading
Microsoft Dubai, emphasizing its ability
to directly monetize AI offerings. That
stock is higher in early trading, up by
1.41%. [music] 41%. Let's stick with
tech. A slew of mega cap tech earnings
reporting this week. Mandy Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now for
more. Mandy, of those names, Microsoft,
Alphabet, Meta, Apple, Amazon. What's
the number one focus for you?
>> I mean, it has to be the cloud growth
for Microsoft, Google, and Amazon. And
look, it's no different from the last
time around, but what changed with the
print last quarter was Microsoft got
close to 40% in Azure growth. It'll be
interesting to see if they actually
surpass that higher bogey. And to my
mind, you know, that's the justification
uh for increase in capex because the
expectations for 2026 are still somewhat
lower than what we saw this year, which
was almost, you know, close to 60%
growth. Next year it's more low teens or
low to mid- teens and so to my mind all
these companies will raise their capex
and that will be dictated by whether
they beat on that cloud number or not.
>> Mandep as you know all these names get
thrown into the same bucket. I'll throw
another name out there Meta. Is the
market more comfortable with the
spending of some companies at the moment
versus other? You mentioned Microsoft. I
just wonder who the market is less
comfortable with at the moment. I think
I I I would put Meta in that bucket
because they don't have a cloud business
and look they will see benefit from AI
when in their ad pricing the
recommendation systems but in the end
you know if you're not uh showing a
separate you know AI number right now in
your print then the market will question
what is AI versus what is non AI and in
the case of meta if they are looking to
raise their capex close to 100 billion
which is what our number is for all
these hyperscalers Microsoft, Google,
Amazon, then you have to ask yourself
what is the ROI and that ROI question I
think is extremely relevant for someone
like Meta if they are going to raise
their capex.
>> Mandep you're in Hong Kong. One thing
we've highlighted over the last few
weeks is just how different the approach
seems to be in Asia efficiency. In
America it feels like they're rushing to
spend because they're confronting an
existential crisis. Mandep do you pick
up the same tone, the same theme whilst
you're over there?
I do and everyone uh is asking me about
you know what kind of optimizations the
cloud providers plan to do how will that
trickle down in terms of their appetite
for Nvidia GPUs in 2026 and really when
you come to you know this part of the
region deepseek and the Chinese models
they have an open-source approach so
that is a big focus in terms of what the
frontier LLMs plan to do in the US and
elsewhere whether they want to embrace
open source or not and that I think is a
an open question at this point of time.
>> Mandep Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Mandep thank you sir. Let's continue the
conversation. Looking ahead to big tech
earnings, Angelo Zeno of CFRA is
remaining bullish. He writes this. We
anticipate a still healthy cloud and
digital ad environment as greater AI
integration and rising enterprise
adoption will continue to support
upside. Angelo joins us now for more.
Angelo, welcome. You heard Mande a
little bit more cautious on the likes of
say Meta. Do you share that caution?
>> We do actually. We we would view Meta as
probably the the biggest risk among the
the mega cap names that are reporting
this week. Um and and really kind of
just I I would just echo some of the the
comments that were just made in the
sense that we do think that you you look
at the the capex the capital intensity
numbers among these these hyperscalers
or big tech names and uh Meta not having
its own cloud business given the fact
that listen it is more of a cost center
when you think about the the AI
investments that they are uh making
despite the fact that listen they are
monetizing it to an extent in terms of
you know improving the the the
recommendations um and in content across
the platform. Um that being said, they
are not monetizing it to the to the
level that these cloud providers are. So
as a respect a as a you know as a result
I mean there is more risk tied to them
as these depreciation costs um start to
really kind of uh gain traction here
over the next couple years. And when you
actually look at the magnitude of the
spend that we already know Meta is going
to do or what they've alluded to for
2026 at about 100 billion next year
relative to 70 billion this year and
let's call it 40 billion just a year
ago. Um you know that that is a
tremendous increase um for any company
out there but especially Meta given the
fact that they can't monetize it to the
level that these cloud providers are.
>> Angela, I feel like we have this uh
conversation every time before Meta
reports earnings. They can't keep it up.
What are they actually making money on?
and then they come out with earnings and
their stock shoots up at 10%. I mean,
what could we potentially see uh in
terms of going forward with a team that
they have amassed with huge bonuses that
could potentially uh buck the trend or
make you think that they could have
significant upside?
>> And and that's a great question. I mean,
when you look at these these, you know,
mega cap names, Meta's actually growing
the fastest. So, from that perspective,
I mean, you have to give them credit. I
mean they're grow they're going to grow
the top line this quarter north of 20%
which is going to be faster than any of
these you know than than the Microsofts
and the alphabets of the world. So um
from that perspective hey listen the
fact that they can continue to grow the
top line and in many many respects
actually manage the margins in in a very
you know healthy manner at least up
until now. Um they've continued to
demonstrate um very good success and the
stock prices continues to go higher
which is why we're still recommending
the stock and have a buy recommendation
on it. But when you kind of look ahead
here um and and you look at the talent
that they've really amassed here um the
potential to to expand the addressable
market whether it be you know in terms
of the devices side which probably has a
longer tail or whether it be in terms of
finding new innovative ways to really
monetize um their adbased platforms
whether it be you know uh with meta AI
um you know having more of these kind of
inapp uh these ad interactions they they
know more about us than any other
company out there when you start
thinking about it. So, um they can they
can definitely monetize that platform in
many new and innovative ways that they
haven't done so yet. And mind you, they
do still have threads which they're
really not monetizing at this point in
time. That installed base continues to
grow um you know pretty fast and it is
going to be we think more of a
monetizable story in 2026 and 2027. So,
they do have that going for them.
There's a real question around
monetization for the likes of Meta,
Microsoft, and Alphabet when it comes to
the AI story. There's also a question of
the energy constraint and how much they
are increasingly tied to that story as a
potential uh hindrance to some of their
expansion plans. Are you expecting to
hear anything about that in these
earnings? We've talked a lot about some
of the big deals that they've come out
with with private equity firms and with
uh with a lot of banks in terms of
trying to build out their own energy
centers as they try to meet this demand.
I mean, I I think I think the questions,
you know, will be uh brought up. I don't
know if there's there's anything that
they're directly going to um you know,
address from that perspective. I think
they'll just allude to some of the
fact that facts that you just uh
mentioned. And um at this point in time,
listen, this is um you know, this is one
of those situations where they continue
to or I'd say is probably the biggest
bottleneck for potential bottleneck for
the industry. Um but that said, I mean,
listen, they they continue to
aggressively invest whether it be, you
know, in terms of energy needs, whether
it you know, be just in the overall data
center buildouts and of course um
installing these servers. So, um you
know, it's it's going to come at a hefty
cost, but one way or another, you know,
if the the demand is there, they're
going to find a way, we think, to you
know, to to make sure that those, you
know, that demand is realized. Angelo,
on all of these names, whether or not
it's Google, Apple, Meta, Microsoft,
going into earnings, you have either a
buy or a strong buy. Who's most
vulnerable on your list?
>> Um, as far as this earning season is
concerned, um, you know, most
vulnerable, you know, it's, you know,
we've kind of highlighted Meta, which we
we would say is probably the biggest
risk here over the next couple of
quarters, just because um, of the
uncertainties there. Not to mention the
digital ad side is typically more at
risk to, you know, uncertainties on the
macro side than any other uh factors out
there. I would say, you know, when you
go into this earning season, I think
there's been a lot of hype going into
Apple. Again, it's it's a name we like
and we think it's going to be a great
story into 2026, but I think the street
at this point in time essentially um you
know, whether whether or not is right,
they you know, they're essentially
looking for double digit growth, I
think, on the hardware side of things
here for the September quarter and
December quarter. So, it'll be
interesting to see whether or not they
can meet that high bar. Um, also, as far
as the AI story is concerned, we do
think they get that right. Um, it's
going to be more of a 2026 story. I
don't think it's anything that you
really hear too much about, um, this
earning season. So, I think there might
be a little bit too much hype going into
Apple, going into the print. But, um,
that said, I mean, any type of pullback
we think on the name um, should be and
we think will be bought back pretty
quickly.
>> Angela, I've got 30 seconds, so keep
this brief if you can. Do you think Meta
is on the brink of a third quarter 2022
type moment all over again or are we be
beyond that now?
>> Um
[clears throat] I mean that's a great
question. I I think we're beyond that.
Um but you know I think it remains to be
seen. I I think you know I I really
think Meta is this really interesting
story. I mean and the the cost that
they're they've been able to absorb in
many respects and still grow and keep
those margins I think is really
interesting. I think there's also, you
know, the potential for them to really
cut um some other non AI oriented costs,
whether it be tied to the metaverse or
something else that could really um you
know, help them here over the next
couple quarters. So, we'll see.
>> Could be a stock to watch. Angelo,
appreciate your honesty. Thank you, sir.
Angelo Zena there of CF. Up next, Puja
Sher Ram of Barclays. That raid decision
a few days away.
>> [music]
>> The opening B 60 minutes away. Two-day
winning streak on the S&P 500. Two
consecutive weeks of gains last week.
The biggest weekly gain for the
benchmark in America [music] going back
to August. A boost to this equity market
and another boost this morning, up by
1.3 on the NASDAQ 100. Outperformance on
the Russell last week. This morning up
by another 1% as we count you down to
the cash open. Let's get you some
morning movers with Danny. Hey Danny.
Hey, John. A scoop from the deals team
this morning that Nelson Peltz's Trion
is looking at buying the rest of Janice
Henderson that it does not already own.
It's teaming up a general catalyst to do
this. [music] Uh Trion already owns
about 20%. So again, this would just be
for the remaining share. Shares are up
just under 13% [music]
for Janice Henderson. Elsewhere, it is
the big hyperscaler earnings this week.
Microsoft will be reporting on Wednesday
and we had an analyst upgrade heading
into that from Guggenheim saying that
they are [music] well positioned to take
advantage of the AI trade, but this is a
significant upgrade because now 99% of
analysts have a buy rating on Microsoft.
So those shares up 1.4% off the back of
that. We also learned from Lululemon
this morning that they [music] will now
be selling NFL apparel. They're teaming
up with Fanatics and NFL to do that.
[music] Shares are at 4% off the back of
that. Lululemon has been leaning more
into athletics, signing on [music]
various sports stars like Lewis Hamilton
for this advertisement campaign. Uh,
apparently Joe Montana is going to be
the face of [music] that. So interested
to see what Lululemon character wears.
John,
>> they've got to turn this story around
because they've had a terrible year.
That stock has had a terrible year.
Danny mentioned Microsoft. Just looking
at the analyst recommendations, you're
doing the same thing. 72 buys, one hold,
zero sales. [music]
Why fight against a train that has been
a freight train that has been such an
engine of growth and is backing the
entire equity market? You could argue
there have been studies that show that
buyside analysts tend to be overweight
and bullish on stocks until the very
end. So you could make that argument
that it's not exactly a leading
indicator. Nonetheless, you know, how
much career risk, this is sort of what I
hear in my head, your voice saying, how
much career risk must there be to say
sell your Microsoft [music] holdings
right now?
>> Yeah. losing access to management, all
of those kind of things.
>> Losing access to your investors
>> plagues the industry.
>> Yeah. Well, that's true, too.
>> It's a problem. It's a real problem.
Equity futures on the S&P up by 0.8% so
far this morning. Looking ahead to the
week ahead, lots of tech earnings coming
Wednesday and Thursday. Big meeting
between the US and Chinese leader coming
up on Thursday, too. Sandwiched in
between somewhere, a Federal Reserve
decision that we're all taking for
granted. Mike McKe, just an assumption.
They cut interest rates again and it's
easy sailing except you and I both know
it's different. That committee, Mike,
how difficult will it be for the
chairman pal to communicate anything
beyond the October decision?
>> Oh, it's going to be very difficult
because the government shutdown has
lasted so long now we're really in
danger of losing the data we would have
gotten for October. And who knows what's
going to happen in November. They don't
meet after Wednesday until the 10th of
December. But I do have a surprise for
you this morning. something they can
hang their hat on a little bit. We have
some data. The Chicago Fed puts together
a real time unemployment forecast. They
do use some of the government data in
it, but since they haven't got it,
they're estimating and they say in
October we would have had a unemployment
rate of 4.35%.
September would have been 4.34%.
So no real difference. They'll update
this on November 6th, which is the day
before we would get the November uh the
uh the payroll numbers for October if
they were coming out. But uh their view
is we're not seeing a real deterioration
in the labor market. You do mention that
Wednesday is the Fed meeting. We have a
very light data week because all these
data points have been cancelled. So you
can pretty much focus except for
Wednesday on all the tech earnings. Uh
we do get consumer confidence and
jobless claims. we get now these the the
raw data at 4:00 on Thursday afternoons,
we adjust it for you. By Friday morning,
we'll have uh a pretty good idea of what
jobless claims are. And as we saw last
week, they're not really changing the
picture either. And here's one bit of
good news. Uh maybe uh you know, Omar
Sharief, he's at Inflation Insights,
he's looked at the possibility of an
October CPI report if the shutdown ends
within the first week of November. He
says that BLS suggests they need only
about two and a half% of their sample to
get a reasonable estimate for the CPI.
They'll have gasoline, cars, wireless
phones data already in, sent in by the
the the private sector, some for
apparel, furnishings, and prescription
drugs, and they can go call up
landlords, the big landlords, and ask
them what were you charging. Uh same
with insurance. So he thinks there's a
possibility, you can keep your fingers
crossed, that the Fed will have some
sort of price data to use before uh the
next meeting.
>> Mike, just remind us when's the survey
week for payrolls? When do things get if
we miss that?
>> Survey week is the week that in the the
week that includes the payroll that
would be on the 12th of the month. So
we've well passed that. But a lot of
that data, almost all of it comes in now
from uh electronic sources. So, we can
get the total number of jobs once
there's somebody to put that out. It's
the unemployment number that's difficult
to get because that's a telephone
survey. And the longer you go without
doing it, the more you get into memory
bias and things like that. So, there's a
possibility we get half of that report.
>> Mike, I'd given up on October. I was
thinking about November. Ah, Mike, thank
you. Mike McKe there. Yeah, I think
we've all given up on October, haven't
we? I mean honestly how difficult the
situation is that we are completely
blind and we are going to be completely
blind for at least one month if not two
if not three. You are right. How likely
is it that we're going to get data in
any kind of clean sense through the end
of the year. So year over like you said
>> confirmation bias. It's difficult to get
people to change their prior when we
don't have the data. And that's why the
divisions of the Federal Reserve aren't
going to resolve themselves anytime
soon. It's equally difficult because
people are looking at earnings to try to
fill the gap. And we keep saying the
market is not the economy. These big
companies are not necessarily the main
street classic struggle that you're
seeing in some of the private asset
markets which have seen pockets of
weakness. Not necessarily systemic, but
pockets. I mean, that to me is really
the key question. How much are people
flying blind and going with just
confirmation bias? I'm joking about year
over just a little bit of course, but
[laughter] no September jobs report, no
October jobs report. It looks like based
on what you're telling us about what's
going on down in Washington DC. Terry
Haynes was on the program early this
morning and he said end of November is
when the shutdown ends. So maybe
november jobs report either. So we're
waiting for how much longer before we
get this data?
>> I mean weeks if not months definitely
when it comes to the data. Weeks if not
months. But Mike McKe's point there,
someone talking about the fact that we
can maybe get somewhat of a print just
based off a 2.5% sample that maybe
speaks to maybe we need to have better d
better data collection.
>> It's going to raise obvious questions.
Omar does fantastic work by the way on
the inflation story. Let's stick with
the Federal Reserve ahead of Wednesday's
rate decision. Pasri Rama Barklay's
writing the FMC is nearly certain to cut
25 basis points next week. This week,
pending surprises, we retain our
baseline for additional cuts in
December, March, and June with risk that
these cuts are more delayed. Puja joins
us now for more. Puja, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's pick up on that. So, October feels
like it's done. I can't find a single
person who thinks they won't cut
interest rates on Wednesday. We've been
sort of pondering the idea that it gets
difficult to guide beyond October. How
does Chairman P navigate that in the
news conference?
>> Yeah, it's it's going to be difficult. I
mean, we are in uncharted territory when
it comes to not having data flow. This
is indeed the longest the BLS has had to
furlow workers and it's going to create
a pretty messy situation in terms of not
having an you know decent October data
maybe not having October data at all and
um I think at the minimum he will
communicate that you know they've not
had their traditional estimates from
official data um and it's going to be
difficult but this and this is where it
gets problematic right data or no data
you still have to make policy and that's
where it gets tricky for the FOMC.
>> So they're in the risk management
business. Why is the prudent decision to
carry on cutting when you don't have the
data you need?
>> Well, I think whatever we're getting in
terms of alternative data on labor
markets are still pretty decent relative
to I think the alternative data we get
on inflation for example. And you know,
we've been getting statewise claims data
that seem to suggest that claims have
been about where they've been in the
past couple of months. So not really
moving much higher uh but also not at
very low levels. We're able to piece
together some data on job openings, some
data in in terms of hiring and it gives
us a situation where the labor market is
very similar to how it was in August
which is pretty low level of monthly
employment gains at about 30 to 40,000 a
month. Uh we have some indication as you
know Michael pointed out from the
Chicago Fed which tells you the
unemployment rate is at 43 perhaps
ticking slightly up. So if anything the
data seems to paint a picture that risks
to the employment side of their mandate
are still to the very still very much to
the downside. On the other hand we did
get that one exception which is the
September CPI data and again pretty
benign despite all the tariff noise. So
in that world they could perhaps decide
that cutting one more time in December
seems to be the prudent policy decision
to make
>> which is a de facto tested admission
that 3% inflation is fine. I mean, at a
certain point, you have to think they
don't seem bothered by 3% inflation,
even though they still say that 2% is
their target. You expect CPI to end the
year at 3.1%. And the following year,
2026, at 2.8%. 3% essentially. I mean,
is that is that really what you're
seeing? I think the story here is again,
you know, you're looking at the
employment side of the mandate and
getting more concerned about that. The
inflation story I think for the FOMC is
one where it's really a lot of the
tariff induced price shock but something
that could subside potentially you know
over 2026 and that I think feeds into
their narrative that inflation is
perhaps on track towards their target
and the employment side really needs to
be addressed. Risks admittedly Lisa are
to the upside for inflation. There's
also a question about whether people are
underappreciating strength in the labor
market going forward and maybe not now,
but maybe beginning of next year if
people do have more confidence and
companies are getting a stronger sense
of what the backdrop is, they're getting
some of the rebates from tax plans. What
what's to say that there isn't an upside
risk to hiring given the fact that a lot
of companies have been sitting on their
hands but doing pretty well?
>> I think that's a fair fair statement and
it's again you've got to wait and watch
um to see how this pans out. We are now
in a very uh precarious balance between
labor supply and labor demand. Right?
Something that Chair Powell has told us.
We've never in the past seen this really
odd dynamic where we're seeing labor
demand weaken, but at the same time
you're getting this pretty sharp
drawback in labor supply because of the
immigration restrictions. And while
theoretically it, you know, seems to
make sense that it's really a labor
supply story, you shouldn't see labor
market slack pick up, etc. I think from
a riskmanagement perspective, you know,
that's what the FOMC is doing. We've got
to wait and watch to see how the data
pan out.
>> You mentioned tariff induced inflation.
Where are you seeing the pass through
right now?
>> You know, it's hard to say because it
really depends on what the
counterfactual would have been had we
not had tariffs. Right now, our estimate
is the pass through has been anywhere
between 50 to 60% on average. And there
is likely more to come. Uh but again
this is something that's been extremely
hard to estimate uh on a month-to-month
basis. The you know the closest
historical precedent we've had is a
201819 trade scenario. Um and even then
you know I wouldn't say it's necessarily
an applesto apples comparison. Uh but
we're seeing signs that there has been
tariff induced price pressures and our
sense is you know as we enter Q4 perhaps
early Q1 there's more to come.
>> If there's more to come how do you get
to the 2.8% 8% inflation target of next
year that Lisa was mentioning.
>> Well, I think it's it's really a concept
of base effects. If you think you get
really eleated inflation in Q4 of this
year, but it really starts to wind down
by the end of 2026, you could get that
2.8%. It's not ideal as Lisa said,
perhaps not high as high as you know
three or the above 3% that we were once
forecasting.
>> Puja, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Looking ahead to this Fed
decision later this week. Puja Shiran
there of Barclays. I'm pleased you
brought up the forecast. Bremo, it's
just been this rolling three-year view
of getting back to 2%. And we've been
rolling with this three-year view of
getting back to 2% for a number of years
now. And the tension, I think, is
building between the aspirational
forecast the Fed puts out every quarter
and the reality of the data itself. And
if you keep cutting with inflation
closer to three than it is to two,
overwhelmingly the consensus is going to
be that you don't really care about the
2% inflation target anymore. And there's
good reason for that opinion. It's been
five years with inflation above 3%
according to Puja Sham and the folks
over at Barclay as you're talking about
next year being basically at 3% 2.8%. So
that would be six years of essentially
3% inflation at a certain point. Is that
okay? Is that kind of what a market is
just accepting and not necessarily
freaking out about? And is the Fed
taking that and running with it? There
was a scathing Wall Street Journal
editorial board opinion piece this
weekend that talked about also not just
the Fed, but Washington in general, even
the politicians accepting a deacto 3%
inflation target and how they don't
think this is what anyone had in mind
when they cast their votes last year.
>> Credit to Alarian talked about this
years ago. If you were to set today's
inflation target, you wouldn't pick two,
you'd pick three. It's hard to get it
down to two. And this Federal Reserve is
not in a position right now to even
think about that or comment on it on it
publicly. And frankly, they don't want
to risk the labor market in order to uh
make that compromise. And right now,
they're going to keep saying 2%, but
right now, their actions are saying
three.
>> Stocks at record highs. They like it in
the equity market at least. It's weird
the bond market's so comfortable with
this, but that's a conversation for
another time. Let's give an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here with more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Javier Mille's party
won Argentina's midterm vote. Mille said
he'd have the backing of 101 members of
the lower house and 20 senators
protecting his veto power. The result
allows him to pursue free market
policies with billions of dollars in
backing from the Trump administration.
Meanwhile, the US and China are closing
in on a trade deal. Both sides spent the
weekend in Malaysia coming to terms on a
range of issues including export
controls, fentinol, and shipping fees.
Treasury Secretary Scott [music] Bessant
says President Trump's threat of a 100%
tariff on Chinese goods is effectively
off the table and he expects China will
make substantial purchases of American
soybeans.
And the New York Jets finally earned
their first win of the season yesterday,
pulling off a thrilling comeback to beat
the [music] Bengals 39-38.
The Giants were not so lucky, falling to
the Eagles 38-20, while the Patriots
dominated the Browns on their way to a
fifth straight win. And in prime time,
the Packers led by Jordan Love came back
from a halftime deficit to defeat Aaron
Rogers [music] and the Steelers 35-25.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, null Dixon estate
streets here with trade optimism pushing
bond yields higher and equities [music]
a whole lot higher. Equity futures going
into the opening bout up this morning by
0.8%.
>> [music]
[music]
>> What I really worry about is that
investors are very much of the mind. The
Fed's going to continue to cut.
Inflation is, you know, a 2021 story
largely contended with. And I think the
risk is uh you're cutting into a a a
higher growth, higher inflation
environment. And the question is what
does the bond market think about that
ultimately?
>> In the meantime, who cares? Equity
market loves it. Seems to be the
takeaway. That's not my view. That's
Greg Peters there of P Jim. Fixed income
all-time highs on the S&P 500. Could it
disrupt fixed income [music] in the
months to come? At the moment, not
really. Equity futures up by 0.8% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ 100, higher by 1.2.
What a week we've got coming up for you.
The week ahead looks like this. At 8:30
p.m. Eastern time, the president holding
a bilat with the Japanese prime
minister. Then things really start to
pick up into [music] Wednesday. The
Fed's interest rate decision and
chairman pound news conference is just
around the corner. plus earnings from
Microsoft, [music] Alphabet, Meta.
Thursday, a sitdown meeting between
Trump and Shei, plus numbers from Apple
and Amazon. And throw in there, too, an
ECB interest rate decision just for good
measure. [music]
Equity markets are doing well, up by
0.8% into all of that. Null Dixon of
State Street writing the following.
Despite the impulse [music] to decouple
and the potential for further horse
trading between the US and China, the
mutual economic interdependence will
likely yield a result. the markets can
live with. No joins us now for more. No,
welcome. Equity market likes it. You've
talked about the path of lease
resistance higher. When do things start
to get tricky?
>> Yeah, thanks for having me. I think
things start to get tricky when we get
into the uh first quarter of next year.
Um I do think that uh you know the Fed
right now they're probably easing into
strength into the US. Uh when we look at
uh non-residentidential fixed investment
um we we see you know a pickup
year-over-year pretty pretty solid uh on
the equipment side not so much uh with
structures. Uh when we look at the labor
market it's interesting before the
shutdown uh the labor market actually
was still at least on track although
moderating um on track to not have a
spike in the unemployment rate. So we
have on aggregate a consumer that I
think is still in a pretty decent
position. Uh like I said uh capex
spending is is uh starting to look
pretty healthy. Uh so we do have a
situation I think where the Fed is uh
likely cutting into strength.
>> At this point it seems like big tech has
been the leadership. We've seen uh the
magnificent seven names account for
about half of the 15% gain that we've
seen in the S&P 500 year to date. How
important is it to see really good
earnings, better than good, better
expectations than anyone could have
imagined in order to keep it going?
>> Yeah, I think I think the bar is high.
Um and and I think that you know even if
we get say a number that's in line and
it doesn't really knock the cover off
the ball. I do think the the bottom line
is there there is no other alternative.
I think uh you know the Mag 7 still are
appealing. Uh some of the other broader
uh tech hardware software companies are
still appealing. I think that's the path
of least resistance um you know relative
to the other 493 and the S&P um you know
these these tech companies have the
solid earnings um and they have uh the
trajectory of you know basically this AI
revolution.
Meanwhile, earlier this morning, we were
talking to Avidas Spuruto from RBC and
he was talking about bank mergers and
how that's been a huge driver of
activity outside of the tech sphere,
although you could argue it is also
levered somewhat to the tech sphere.
This morning we got another deal hunting
bank shares agreeing to buy Cadence Bank
and it just sort of goes to this idea
that maybe even in the regional bank
space there's real alpha. Is that an
area that you're looking at because of
this huge wave of M&A?
Yeah. So the so the regional bank space
u you know I think there is uh some
opportunity
um not necessarily due to um you know uh
alpha generation more so I just think
that there has to be um a consolidation
as I think some of the um you know for
example delinquencies or office loans uh
that's crept up if you look at the St.
Louis Feds measure to about 11%. So
that's the highest since the GFC. So I
think there's a recognition that there
has to be um some some consolidation to
sort of remedy some of these
dislocations I think that exist in the
in the credit space.
>> No, Jonathan talked about your note
coming into you about the mutual
economic interdependence between Beijing
and Washington that basically results in
a deal the markets can live with. What
could the markets not live with? Because
doesn't that act as a barometer to this
administration?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think the markets
cannot live with a a decoupling 100% uh
additional tariffs on top of what's
already implemented uh with China. They
can't live with um you know a a chi a
China that basically cuts off rare earth
uh exports. Um so if there is a uh
basically a tension or um you know not a
resolution to this trade sort of spat
between the US and China that will be
problematic for risk.
>> But does the market care that this is
basically deferred until next year?
>> No it doesn't. I think it's it's
basically um you know all we need to do
is have something surface level um that
that basically alleviates sort of the
tail risks like as I just mentioned uh
uh previous to this um that that
eliminates those sort of um you know
rare earth uh dislocations anything to
do with um uh export controls any of
those surface level issues if we could
get those uh reconciled that'll be good
enough for markets. No, thank you sir.
Always appreciate catching up with you.
No Dixon there of State Street
[clears throat] Global Markets on the
three big issues we're facing this week.
>> Earnings on the tech side, Federal
Reserve decision on Wednesday. Big talks
between the Chinese and US leader.
Market's comfortable with where things
are. It's remarkable the market's
comfortable with the status quo
regarding trade. But seems to be so long
as we avoid escalation, I feel like
that's good enough. And the news we got
over the weekend, I think went beyond
just avoiding escalation.
>> It really went to coming up with more of
a framework. And I don't think people
were expecting a real comprehensive
framework ahead of that meeting between
Xiinping and and Donald Trump. And I
think that that really is the key. There
was progress made and how much was it
because of the strategic misstep that
China made with rare earths and what it
created around the world. At the same
time, it does feel like a band-aid to
what's going to be in 2026 when China
might decide to pull out the rare earth
export controls once again, which is why
it feels like we're back to where the
relationship was in May at the Geneva
talks.
>> Just takes the bar up just a little bit
going into that meeting. Greater scope
for disappointment now given the read
through over the weekend.
>> Yeah, but right now keeping the status
quo is good because that gives time and
both sides are buying time because they
want to rearrange. But you're right. If
suddenly someone says something bad and
there's an advertisement or there's a
Woody the Pooh image or something like
that, everything goes
>> Why the Pooh?
>> I'm not making you go there. Don't
worry. [laughter]
I'm not doing that.
>> I know exactly what I know exactly what
you meant. All right.
>> Okay. Let's move on.
>> Coming up tomorrow, Jack Caffrey of JP
Morgan, Congressman French Hill, former
Dallas [music] Fed President Robert
Kaplan, Ed Yardeni of Yardi Research
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Thank you for choosing Blimbe
TV. This was Bloomberg Surveillance.